WEALTH, VIRTUAL
WEALTH AND DEBT

WEALTH, VIRTUAL
WEALTH AND DEBT
THE SOLUTION OF THE
ECONOMIC PARADOX

BY

FREDERICK SODDY, M.A., F.R.S.
DR. LEE'S PROFESSOR OF CHEMISTRY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF OXFORD;
NOBEL LAUREATB IN CHEMISTRY, 1921
AUTHOR OF "THE INTERPRETATION OF RADWM,"
.. MATTER AND ENERGY," AND .. SCIENCB AND LIFE"

LONDON: GEORGE ALLEN & UNWIN LTD.
RUSKIN

HOUSE,

+0 MUSEUM

STREET,

w.c, r

FREDERICK SODDY

DEDICATED
TO

ARTHUR KITSON
THE BRITISH PIONEER OF THE NEW ECONOMICS,
TO

WHOSE

WRITINGS

THE

AUTHOR

OWES

HIS INITIAL INTEREST IN THE FASCINATING PROBLEMS OF WEALTH
AND CURRENCY

NEW PRINTING

1983

.. That which seems to be wealth may in verity
be only the gilded index of far. reaching ruin; a
wrecker's handful of coin gleaned from the beach
to which he has beguiled an argosy; a campfollower's bundle of rags unwrapped from the breasts
of goodly soldiers dead; the purchase-pieces of
potter's fields, wherein shall be buried together the
citizen and the stranger."
JOHN RU8KIN.

Unto th;" LaB'. 1862.

PREFAOE
THE introductory chapter of this book describes how it
came to be written, and the summary at the end sets forth
the chief positive conclusions arrived at. Although it is
not a novel, but rather, a serious treatise upon what is
sometimes called "The Dismal Science," the habit of
glancing at the end before starting the book is by no means
to be deprecated. Intended for all sorts of readers sincerely
anxious to understand the causes of modern unrest in the
political and economic sphere, the summary will explain
better than a brief preface the goal to which the book is
directed. It is as well to take a look at the wood before
plunging in among the trees, or the view may be dismal
indeed.
It is an attempt, rarely made nowadays, by a specialist
in one field of knowledge to solve the problems in another.
In science, we recognise that the border-land between
related subjects is usually the most fruitful field for new
discoveries, and also that it is not unknown for entirely
new subjects to start from and be based upon more or less
minor advances in subjects apparently unrelated to them.
This inquiry commenced with the attempt to obtain a
physical conception of wealth that would obey the physical
laws of conservation and be incapable of imitating the
capricious behaviour of the subject-matter of psychical
research. During the progress of the investigation, a new
theory of money gradually took shape, and in time constituted itself the corner-stone of the whole superstructure.
Just because this theory, unlike others, did not pretend to
correlate price with the state of trade or quantity of goods
being produced, it was recognised that the problems of
stimulating production and abolishing poverty and unemployment were distinct from the purely monetary problem.
One could "stabilise stagnation." The solution was in

10

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

due course arrived at, and the general conditions were
worked out for the progressive economic expansion of a
community, without change in the value of money or
altemating fits of boom and depression. As was to be
expected, the solution, when found, proved to be the most
ordinary incontrovertible common sense, requiring nothing
more than that to prove it.
Every accession to the quantity of wealth immobilised
in a productive system must be paid for by abstinence from
consumption. The owners, for the time being, of money
contribute a part-usually a small part-unwittingly. The
rest must be met by genuine permanent surrender of rights
to consume. These conditions observed, the revenue of
wealth can be permanently expanded, in a scientific era, to
an almost indefinite extent. It is because the genuine
initial abstinence is burked that the existing system is what
it is. This, in brief, is the solution of the economic paradox.
Acknowledgments are due to a larger number of
authors, for material help in the understanding of these
problems, than it has been possible to refer to specifically
in the text, as well as to numerous correspondents and
friends who have discussed the writer's conclusions and
drawn his attention to many of the pregnant passages
in the literature quoted, of which otherwise he might
have remained in ignorance.
January 1926.

IfREDERICK SODDY.

CONTENTS
PAGE

9

PREFACE

CHAPTER I
17

INTRODUCTORY •

Science the World-Ferment-The Glasgow of James
Watt and Adam Smith-The Economic Paradox-The
Prospect-c-Physical Science and the Humanities-The
Author's Path from Physical Science to EconomicsThe Part played by Energy in Human History-Thtt
Real Capitalist a Plant--Is Science Accursed t-Applied
Science and Root Science-Science and Government.

CHAPTER II
LIFE'S DISCOVERIES

Discovery, Sub-conscious and Conscious-The Unbroken
Flow of Energy from the Inanimate World into LifeThe Internal and Extemal Life·US6 of Energy-The
Origins of Available Energy-The Physical Chemistry of
Metabolism-Coal and Oil-Solar and Atomic EnergyCiviliR&tion seeks to control the Flow of Energy from
nearer its Source.

CHAPTER III
TUE BASIS OF NATIONAL ECONOMICS

The Struggle for Energy-The Broad Teachings of
Thermodynamics - The Impossibility of Perpetual
Motion Machines or Men-llIustrative Physical Processes-Wealth as a Form or Product of Energy. Its
Unlimited Producibility-Poverty and Unemployment.
A Monstrous Contradiction-The Change from Labour
to Diligence-Discovery, Natural Energy and Diligence,

49

12

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
the Three Ingredients of Wealth-Confusions between
National and Individual Wealth-The Economic
Dilemmar-Political Economy and Politic EconomicsThe Paralysing Effect of Old Conventions-The Growth
of Population no longer a Bugbear.

CHAPTER

PAG.

IV

THE FALLACIES OF ORTHODOX ECONOMISTS

69

Wealth and Debt-The Origins of the Confusion-Out
of the Frying-pan into the Fire-Credit-Professor
Cannan's Aper9u of the Science of Wealth-The Interestbearing Theory of Wealth-The Conflict between
Wealth and Leisure-Some Other Views.

V

CHAPTER
UNORTHODOX AND POPULAR VIEWS

•

93

The Denial of the Existence of Absolute WealthRuskin-The Economics of Life aa the Product of the
Consumption of Wealth-Ruskin's Failure to Grasp
the Nature of Absolute Wealth-The Physical Laws
of Conservation can be applied to the Conception of
Wealth-The Confused Aspiration of Modern Communities.

CHAPTER VI
THE Two CATEGORIES OF WEALTH

The Nature and Definition of Absolute Wealth-A Debt
of Life repaid in Life-Value or Price-Labour and
Wealth-An Electrical Model of the Productive
System-The Two Thermodynamic Categories of Wealth
-Perishable and Permanent Wealth-Capital Agents of
Production-An Illustration from Chemistry-Repayments given by Wealth-Capital as a Form of Per.
manent Wealth-Capital multiplies Human Efficiency
-Capital cannot multiply Human Time-Capital Increases either Leisure or Wealth-The Limit at which
the Accumulation of Capital Defeats its Object.

108

CONTENTS

13

CHAPTER VII
PAGB

MONEY OLD AND MONEY NEW

130

The Mechanism for Distributing Wealth among Individuals for Consumption-The Dangers of Money-The
Simplest Questions about Modem Money are unanswerable
-The Evolution of Money-Virtual Wealth-The Two
Kinds of National Credit-Sketch of the Origin of the Present System-Kubla Khan's Currency-The Origin of
Modern Paper Money-The Displacement of National
Money by Bank Money-The Private Issue of Money;
a Chance Result of the Bank Cheque System-The
Moratorium and After-The Change from the Old to
the New "Money "-The Pyramiding of CreditPuzzle, Find the Money-Money Imagined to Exist
for the Purpose of Bearing Interest-How the Community is Robbed-Some Monetary Data-Modem
Money a New Institution-Bankers as Rulers.

CHAPTER VIII
THE PURCHASING POWER OF MONEY.

164

Gold-Value and Goods-Value-How the Gold-Value of
Money was Maintained-The Present Position-The
Variability of Gold-The Evils of a Variable StandardThe Evils of a Shortage of Currency-Production
reduced rather than Prices-What is left of the Value
of the Standard of Value ?-Gold as the Spur of
Civilisation-Gold now a Fraudulent Standard-Real
Wages and Just Wages.

CHAPTER IX
A NATIONAL MONEY SYSTEM
The Social Importance of the Study of Money-Analysis
of Usury-Genuine and Fictitious Money LoansLending Money in Current Account Indefensible-The
Breakdown of the Monetary System ; The Moratorium
-War Finance-The Reductio ad Absurdum of the
Modem Monetary System-How the Taxpayer pays
£MIOO a Year Interest on Non-existent Money-The
Remedy-The still Unsolved Problem.

184

14

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
X

CHAPTER

uo.
200

THB PRINCIPLE OF VIRTUAL WEALTH

High Finance or High Treason ?-The Principle of
Virtual Wealth-The Value of Money measured by
Virtual Wealth-The Musical Chairs Analogy-Why a
Standard is Essential-Index Number-The Hypocrisy of
Standardising Weights and Measures and not MoneyA Currency Based on Index Number-At What Value
Should Money be Fixed ?-Relation between Price and
Goods-Virtual Wealth and Incomes-Hoarding and
Mutual Credit--An Analogy to the Governor of a
Steam Engine-Reply to Some Misunderstandings.
CHAPTER

XI

223

THE RIDDLE OF THE SPHINX

A Symbolism for Representing Economic TransactionsThe System in Equilibrium-" Price" is Distributed
as well as Extracted-How to Increase Production-The
Six Possible Operations-The Necessary Quantity of
Money-The Effect of Increasing Money-The Need of
Abstinence or Saving-The Problem Solved-The Re.
lation between Abstinence and New Money-A more
Detailed Illustration-The Case of Existing Glut-How
it would look to a Banker-The Consequence of Fictitious Abstinence-What hitherto has limited Production
and Consumption-The Only Way of avoiding Initial
Abstinence-Who Gains and Who Pays?
CHAPTER

XII
250

ACCUMULATION V8B8U8 DISTRIBUTION

The Accumulation of Capital-Like Money, Capital is
Individual Wealth and Communal Debt--The Doubtful
Heritage of Science-The Futility of Taxation-The
Agricultural Position of this Country-Analysis of the
Douglas Scheme of Social Credit Reform-The Risk of
Discrediting the New Economics.
CHAPTER

XIII

CAPITAL REDEMPTION

The Production of Capital involves LaBS ConsumptionThe Effect on Real Wages-The Depreciation of Capital
and the Shifting of tho Burden on to the Public-

CONTENTS

Hi

The Origin of Interest on Capital-Inevitability of
Interest in an Individualistic Community-The Scientific
Argument against the Unregulated Continuous Private
Ownership of Capital-The Deeper Futilities of Individualistic Economics-A Scheme of Compound Capital
Redemption - Simple Redemption - Mathematical
Appendix.

CHAPTER XIV
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS

•

277

The Elements of Foreign Trade-The Trade BalanceThe International Aspect of Wealth and Debt-The
Fundamental Nature of the Problem-Edged ToolsEconomic Freedom tler8U8 Servitude-The Practical
Problem-The Function of Gold-A Suggestion for the
Statistical Regulation of the Trade Balance-A National
Stabilised Currency would A88ist, not Retard, Foreign
Trade-Is there a Financial Conspiracy ?-The Real
Conspiracy.

CHAPI'ER XV
SUX]UBY OF P1u.OTIOAL CONOLUSIONS

294

NAMB INDEX.

307

SUBJECT INDEX

309

WEALTH, VIRTUAL "'EALTH
AND DEBT
CHAPTER I
INTRODUCTORY
SCIENCE THE WORLD FERMENT.

WHAT has gone wrong with the world ~ In the throes of
the Great War, many discovered for the first time that they
were living in a scientific civilisation, and even scientific
men themselves realised the difference between the leaven
of theory and its practical aspect in a world boiling in
ferment. Science then almost emerged from its esoteric
seclusion to become a cult-at least, something worth
cultivating, for professional ends. So indispensable in wartime, it seemed curiously insignificant among the public
services in time of peace. Fortunately for science the
danger passed. There are scientific professions, many of
them, but science is not a profession. It is a quest. What
has gone wrong in the world ~ Let us follow the quest.
The time is opportune. Much of what has been attributed to our inevitable destiny-superiority of character, unquenchable spirit, invincibility of purpose, and other human
qualities-takes on a new valuation with the discovery
that we are living in a scientific era. As much might be
said of the virtues attributed to democracy and free political
institutions; or again, of the capitalist system in its pride
of an Empire on which the sun never sets and of the pheno-

18 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
mens of class-hatred and slums on which the sun never
rises. Science has changed the nature of our economic life,
and older systems based on a different mode of living are,
on all hands, admitted to be working most dangerously
if, indeed, they have not already become impossible. They
remain only because there is nothing constructive to replace
them, and are conventionally defended for fear of anarchy
and chaos following their open repudiation. Everything in
the world now is so delicate-which is merely another way
of saying that nobody seems to have any real understanding
of how the economic system works at all or why it works
so dangerously-that the policy of all parties seems to be
rather to bear the ills we have than to fly to others which
we know not of. The people in this respect have frankly
given up real hope that Governments, of whatever complexion, will find any solution even for any of the immediate
practical problems of the day, and it is a period of marking
time. The Great War itself is seen to be not a separate
historical event but more and more as an inevitable consequence of the same ultimate cause. The sudden rise of
the Western world to a position of dominating material
greatness and power, the dangerous and manifold insoluble
social problems that accompanied it, and now threaten our
times, and the phenomenon of modern world-shattering
war on the scale we have just survived, are all now more
generally seen to be due primarily to the changes introduced
into the economics of life by the discoveries of a handful of
scientific pioneers in possession of a new and fruitful method
of gaining natural knowledge, and to the failure of the
older humane sciences to cope with the new situation.
On the one hand, a larger class than ever before have
attained to a higher standard of life, greater leisure and
opportunity for culture, carrying along with them hosts of
servants and dependents, who minister to their comforts
and luxuries and share, to some extent, their prosperity.
But the workers in the more fundamental and essential
industries-such as agriculture, mining and manufactures
-have been cheapened by competition with rather than

INTRODUCTORY

19

benefited by machinery, and, worse, are deprived by it in
increasing numbers of their customary livelihood. For the
propertyless masses, if there has been any improvement
whatever in the average standard of life, it is so small as to
be doubtful and-in comparison with the general progress
of wealth production-contemptible. The lot of the masses
has certainly' become more strenuous and insecure, being
now never free from the spectre of unemployment and
consequent submersion into destitution and degradation.
So that, at the other extreme, a larger class than ever before,
because of the increase of the world's wealth, are existing
in conditions of poverty and economic thraldom that would
have shocked a poorer age.
By neglecting the changes that have come over the
science of production in the past century, it may be possible
to argue that the lot of the majority to-day is a little better
or at most but little worse than it was. But this is not the
real question at issue. Rather we have to find out how
it comes about that science, which, without economic exhaustion, provided the sinews of war for the most colossal
and destructive conflict in history, with the man-power of
the nations engaged in military service, has not yet abolished
poverty and degrading conditions of living from our midst
in the piping times of peace. It is impossible for those who
profess to understand economics and government to escape
the charge of knowing nothing whatever of these subjects
so long as poverty and unemployment exist in an age of
brilliant scientific achievement. Never tired of attributing
economic heresies to others, the state of the whole world
is the monumental evidence of their own.
THE GLASGOW OF JAMES WATT AND ADAM SMITH.

It is significant to reflect that Glasgow, which produced
James Watt, the inventor who brought the steam engine to
practical success, was the home of Adam Smith, the father
of the system of political economy under which the scientific
era has developed. Whilst the former in 1774 was per-

20

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

fecting an engine destined to lift men from the drudgery of
animal labour and to establish over the whole world a new
mode of livelihood, the latter in 1776 was erecting into a
theoretical system the conditions under which, till then,
men had pursued their economic livelihood. The world
might have assimilated either the steam engine or the
economics, but it is difficult to understand how it could
possibly digest two such mutually incompatible productions
simultaneously. Ever since, the world has been attempting
to move in two opposite directions at one and the same
time-towards a higher standard of life for some and a
lower standard for others.
The Glasgow of James Watt and Adam Smith was a city
of 28,000 people, hardly less provincial than Kirkcaldy,
the birthplace of the author of The Wealth of Nations, and
the place to which most of his outlook on the subject can
be traced. The Glasgow of James Watt and Adam Smith
is, to-day, a city of over a million people, the second largest
in the British Empire. It is a monument as much to the
work of the one as the other, being, on the one hand, the
centre of the great Clydebank marine engineering industry
and, on the other, of the social revolution against rent,
interest and profit, fostered by unemployment, houseshortage and high cost of living-famous for its ships and
street-orators in every corner of the globe.
THE ECONOMIC PARADOX.

This book is not concerned with the possibly sensational future progress of science, but is, in origin, rather of
the nature of a return to present problems from one such
anticipation now a generation old, concerned with the
discovery of atomic energy. Though one would hardly
guess it in normal times, under the revealing experiences of
the Great War many of the consequences which it was
natural to anticipate would follow the control of physical
powers greater than any we now possess were shown to
have come about already with the powers actually available.

INTRODUCTORY

21

Then, for the first time in history, we saw science used
without artificial financial restrictions for the purposes of
destruction. A degree of liberality and unity of purpose
prevailed which is never lavished upon the less spectacular
but more necessary tasks of construction. Year after year
the industrialised nations produced an ever-mounting tide
of munitions of war, with the flower of their man-power
withdrawn from production. There seemed no physical
limit to the extent which a nation, shaken out of its preconceived habits of economic thought by the imminent peril at
its doors, could turn out the material necessities for its
existence.
Whereas now we have returned to peace and squalor, to
idle factories and farms reverting to grass, we are back as
a nation to the pre-war conditions breeding a C3 race, with
a million and a quarter workers unemployed, unable to
feed and clothe ourselves adequately on a military standard,
and unable even to build houses in which to live under the
existing economic system. Yet we have the same wealth
of natural resources, the same science and inventiveness,
with much more settled and favourable conditions for
production and an army of unused man-power being demoralised by enforced idleness! The sensationalism of the
scientific prophet could hardly imagine anything so sensational as this. A nation dowered with every necessary
requisite for an abundant life is too poor to distribute its
wealth, and is idle and deteriorates not because it does not
need it but because it cannot buy it. This book attempts
to give an original analysis into the causes underlying this
surprising contradiction.
THE PROSPECT.

As often happens in these swiftly changing times, even
with pure science, new subjects and fields of discovery are
past their most active period of growth before they become
accepted as a normal and permanent part of our social
inheritance and enter into the ruminations of philosophers

22

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

or the curricula of universities. As regards the applications
of science of most economic importance, the mass production
of all kinds of commodities by mechanical power, new
modes of transport and communication, and by far the
greater part of the inventions by which the physical sciences
have been harnessed to the chariot of life to do useful and
profitable work, we are merely witnessing now the full
fruition of an insight into the laws and processes of Nature
obtained quite long ago. Contrary to common belief, such
developments are not inexhaustible. A mechanical invention, like a. bicycle, after a rapid initial period of everchanging design, reaches its final expression, and so it is in
general with the great group of the mechanical applied
sciences founded on the perfection of the steam engine in
the first instance, and, in general, on the proper understanding of the laws of energy and its transformation, which
is the necessary prelude to the control of natural forces.
It would appear that in due course something like an end
may be reached to major developments. Even in the
younger group of electrical sciences the same tendency may
already be seen. True, there have been great and sweeping
advances in the pure parent sciences of physics and chemistry, but these as yet for the most part are still immeasurably
beyond any practical application at all. So that an interregnum, as regards substantial practical progress, is likely
to occur. The older fields will be worked out probably
before the newer are effectively opened up. The biologists
are already claiming that this century will be their innings,
as last century admittedly was that of the physical sciences
in practical world-revolutionising discoveries, and it is to
be hoped that in due course they will implement the
promise.
Among the more thoughtful, the profound misgivings
as to where such applications of science as we have already
made have led and are leading civilisation naturally cloud
the outlook as regards the future. They are very different
in inception and spirit from those which characterised
Butler's Erehwon, and other jaundiced satires of the

INTRODUCTORY

23

Victorians, but they are of somewhat similar trend. Have
we obtained dominion of the major powers of Nature to
fall a victim to our own machinery and ultimately to be
destroyed by it 1 Is our civilisation to end in breeding the
Robot and the rentier, and to go down under class conflicts
at home and fratricidal wars abroad 1 Is there much
point in multiplying by a million the powers already conferred by science if the use we make of those we already
have are sufficient to endanger the future of civilisation 1
There is this difference between the criticism of to-day
and the earlier, more interested and professional disparagement to which, in the Victorian era, science was subjected.
No one now is disposed to put the blame upon science or
the scientific workers for the state of social affairs their
discoveries and inventions have produced. Whoever else
may have profited, scientists themselves have not. No
one now sees the evil in the greater knowledge of and mastery
over the forces of Nature, nor in the material fruits of this
knowledge in lightening the labour of living, and in providing material necessities and comforts in abundance.
The sourest and most jealous fanatic to-day could hardly
maintain that good and nourishing food, sufficient fuel,
clothes and houses, efficient and rapid means of locomotion,
transport and communication and the multifarious interests
of modern life are in themselves evil. The evil is rather
that these things, which science makes so prodigally, are
not more universally obtainable. The medical man will
tell you precisely what is essential for the maintenance and
preservation of a healthy body. What the Victorian
theology attributed to sin and the devil, medical science
to-day would ascribe to poverty and disease.
It is an indication of the backsliding that has occurred
from the high standards of the terrible Victorians that an
author recently referred to his own great-grandfather, who
was responsible for the English Poor-Law, as "not the
inhuman devil which his works would imply, but a painfully
conscientious, duty-loving Victorian Englishman." 1
1

Revolut'lOIl by Reason, John Strachey, 1925.

24

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
PHYSICAL SCIENCE AND THE HUMANITIES.

There is always a tendency for complementaries to be
treated as opponents. If we start from monistic prepossessions, that Nature is a divine harmony and expresses
some single super-law, philosophy is presented with the
very difficult task of trying to piece-out at least three
jig-saw puzzles that have been wilfully mixed up. Neither
mechanical nor biological science, nor the humanities alone,
can solve human problems, but each can contribute its
quota. In mechanics the basis of the rapid progress made
from sweeping generalisations to practical achievement is
due to the entire freedom of its problems from the disturbing element of life. It might be thought a policy of
despair to seek aid from such a study in problems that
have hitherto defied solution by humanists. Nevertheless,
life obeys physical laws. Its methods are at the poles
from those of the engineer, but it cannot work mechanical
miracles. Physics is complementary to it, and life works
according to, not against the principles of the physical
sciences.
Indeed, it may be doubted whether, strictly, any other
aspect of life has yet come within range of exact scientific
inquiry. Life itself is an experience which has yet to find
the proper methods of investigation. The biological sciences
are almost entirely concerned as yet, because of this, with
the physical chemistry of living processes, rather than with
life. Biology threatens to give us children without parents
by ectogenesis, much as chemistry gives us, by synthesis,
indigo innocent of any connection with the indigo plant.!
But in spite of these imitations there is still something
infinitely more interesting and difficult to understand
about the natural processes. Still, it is no small thing to
be sure that life co-operates with and does not violate
natural physical laws, much as the engineer achieves his
triumphs by understanding rather than defying the powers
he controls. Neither individuals nor communities can
1

Daedalus, J. B. S. Haldane, 1923.

INTRODUCTORY

25

escape conforming to the laws of matter and energy, however they may apply them to their own ends.
In this country, especially, there has been a long divorce
between natural and human knowledge. The boycott of
science and its control by hostile vested interests are still
most remarkable features for an age pre-eminently distinguished only by its science. The universities and public
schools, in this, set the standard and fashions of popular
education, and we shall not escape lightly the penalty of
these obscurantist policies.
Their effect on economics, essentially a subject with the
closest relations with the world of facts and physical
realities, has been singularly disastrous, and the hopeless
muddle into which the affairs of the world have been
allowed to get is largely to be traced to no clear recognition
of the physical principles underlying that subject.
The very first economists in France did have an understanding of the natural knowledge of their time. But
though never so necessary as in the scientific era that was
to follow, the physical foundations of the subject became
more and more neglected, in favour of conventional ideas
derived from legal attitudes towards property rights and
human interindebtednesses.
But this is merely a single example. Everywhere the
idea that the few thousand, at most, active creative workers
in science can really be exercising any important influence
on the destinies of great nations and that, without these,
and the ferment. they have introduced, present civilisation
would probably not be different from that of previous
epochs has yet to receive due political recognition.
As for scientific investigators, they are for the most
part too intently preoccupied in their highly specialised and
abstruse inquiries to give time to social problems. Their
activities regulate more and more automatically the principles that appertain to the normal business of the body
politic, but are as completely divorced from the consciousness of society as breathing is from volition. They consider
themselves capable of doing better work in the laboratory

26

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

than in affairs. They recognise that the ability to make
the aimplest and smallest contribution to the stock of knowledge demands many years of serious preparation and
study, many fruitless purely negative results, and that, in
the end, the discoveries made are not likely to be those
sought for, but the by-products, as it were, of a life of
ceaseless quest into the unknown. They probably more
than suspect that something quite analogous applies in
any other field of inquiry, and not least to the confusions of
politics. This makes them realise that their own political
opinions are usually no more original than those of other
people and are not in the least likely to be any more helpful.
THE AUTHOR'S PATH FROM PHYSICAL SCIENCE TO
ECONOMICS.

Some may be interested to know how it was that the
author came to stray so far from the confines of his own
subject and to lay himself open to the abuse which passes
for argument in the matters that affect the pocket rather
than the mind or soul. At least, in defence, he may claim
that in consequence he has himself seen things clear and
seen things whole which he could not otherwise have done,
even though he fail to convey the vision to his readers.
In the closing years of last and the opening years of this
century the discovery of radioactivity, and its interpretation in terms of existing knowledge, revealed the existence
of stores of potential energy in the atoms of the radioactive
elements of the order of a million times greater than any
previously known. These stores were and remain impossible
to harness to any practical physical purpose, and are given
out at very slow rates in a purely natural process of transmutation of the radioactive elements into lead and helium.
There is no doubt of their existence in these elements, and
the existence of similar stores in other elements has been
legitimately inferred, though not as yet experimentally
proved. Following the very well-known reasoning that
applies in chemistry, it appears certain that any process

INTRODUCTORY

27

of artificial transmutation would be able to liberate these
stores and to render them available as the energy of coal
and fuel now is. Many purely speculative deductions along
the same vast lines have since been made from the theory
of relativity, and it is to atomic energy, in the first instance,
that physicists and astronomers now look to account for
the maintenance of the heat of the sun and stars, and in
general, the live energy of nature, over cosmical periods of
time. It is unnecessary to enter further into this field, as
few scientific discoveries have attracted more widespread
interest than radioactivity, or have been more fully interpreted for the benefit of the non-scientific public. The
names of Becquerel, M. and Mme. Curie, Rutherford,
J. J. Thomson, Ramsay, Joly, Bragg and other pioneers
in this field are household words.
It was natural to consider what sort of a world it would
be if atomic energy ever became available. To compare
such a world to that of to-day, it was necessary to contrast
the latter with the world before the dawn of history and the
art of kindling a fire. Just as the savage died of cold on the
site of what now are coal-mines, and perished with hunger
on corn-fields now energised with the fertilisers produced
at Niagara, so, it seemed, we were leading a pettifogging
existence, fighting one another like wild beasts for a share
of the supplies of energy somewhat niggardly vouchsafed
by Nature, whilst all round us existed the potentialities of
a civilisation such as the world had not then even imagined
possible.
THE PART PLAYED BY ENERGY IN HUMAN HISTORY.

In that way, some conception of the part played by
energy in human history began to take shape, and progress
in the material sphere appeared not so much as a successive
mastery over the materials employed for the making of
weapons-as the succession of ages of stone, bronze and
iron, honoured by tradition-but rather as a successive
mastery over the sources of energy in Nature, and their

28

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

subjugation to meet the requirements of life. The whole of
the achievements of our civilisation-in which it is differentiated from the slow, uncertain progress recorded by history
-appeared as due to the mastery over the energy of fire
reached with the advent of the steam engine. If, therefore, there is at hand not merely in the remote stars, but at
our feet, an unlimited source of energy of the order of a
million times more powerful than any known, what tremendous social consequences await the discovery of artificial
transmutation!
Yet how far is human society from being safely entrusted
with such powers 1 If the discovery were made to-morrow,
there is not a nation that would not throw itself heart and
soul into the task of applying it to war, just as they are now
doing in the case of the newly developed chemical weapons
of poison-gas warfare. In The World Set Free Mr. H. G.
Wells, just before the outbreak of the Great War in 1914,
devoted himself with his customary brilliance and insight
to the question, and so vividly depicted the probable consequences that it would be superfluous for anyone of lesser
gifts to pursue the topic, at least until the practical realisation of the disturbing dream comes nearer. For this is one
of the newer developments of pure science, already referred
to as still immeasurably beyond practical application. It
may come quickly or again it may never come. At present
there is hardly a hint even of how to begin. If it were to
come under existing economic conditions, it would mean
the reductio ad absurdum of our scientific civilisation, a
swift annihilation instead of a none too lingering collapse.
"If what you tell us is true," a scientific colleague, one
of the Professors of Engineering, remarked to Rutherford in
Montreal as long ago as 1902, " then we ought all, it seems,
to be leaving the work we are doing and to concentrate our
attention on the solution of this problem." Possibly many
have since had the same thought. Yet, in scientific research,
nothing is less likely than that the discoverer will discover
what he sets out to discover. La Salle set out to discover
China by sailing westwards from Europe. Laohine is not in

INTRODUCTORY

29

China, but in the middle of the Province of Quebec, a tramride from Montreal, on the great modern trans-continental
route of the C.P .R. to the Orient. But the name still
recalls the derision with which La Salle's pioneer attempt
was greeted by his contemporaries. Scientific discovery
could record episodes as strange. Pasteur studying fermentation discovered the important property of optical isomerism-which has developed almost into a science in itselfin passing on the road to the recognition of the part played
by bacteria. But the most important part of his work was
neither in brewing nor saccharometry. It revolutionised
surgery, and to it countless millions owe their very lives.
Scientific discovery is a growth rather than a journey
to plan. The voyage may be west to discover the east,
and it is through fog and by dead-reckoning to put places
upon, rather than to hit them off from a map. That transmutation may one day be possible and that the Coal and
Oil Age will give place to an Atomic Age may be confidently
expected, but when,and whether in this civilisation's cycle,
none can guess.
THE REAL CAPITALIST A PLANT.

Still one point seemed lacking to account for the phenomenal outburst of activity that followed in the Western
world the invention of the steam engine, for it could not
be ascribed simply to the substitution of inanimate energy
for animal labour. The ancients used the wind in navigation and drew upon water-power in rudimentary ways.
The profound change that then occurred seemed to be
rather due to the fact that, for the first time in history, men
began to tap a large capital store of energy and ceased to
be entirely dependent on the revenue of sunshine. All the
requirements of pre-scientific men were met out of the solar
energy of their own times. The food they ate, the clothes
they wore, and the wood they burnt could be envisaged,
as regards the energy content which gives them use-value,
as stores of sunlight. But in burning coal one releases a
store of sunshine that reached the earth millions of years

30

WEALTHt VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

ago. In so far as it can be used for the purposes of life,
the scale of living may bet to almost any necessary extent,
augmented, devotion to the primitive ideas of the peoples
of Kirkcaldy and Judea notwithstanding.
Then came the odd thought about fuel considered as a
capital store, out of the consumption of which our whole
civilisation, in so far as it is modern, has been built. You
cannot burn it and still have it, and once burnt there is no
way, thermodynamically, of extracting perennial interest
from it. Such mysteries are among the inexorable laws of
economics rather than of physics. With the doctrine of
evolution, the real Adam turns out to have been an animal,
and with the doctrine of energy the real capitalist proves
to be a plant. The flamboyant era through which we
have been passing is due not to our own merits, but to our
having inherited accumulations of solar energy from the
carboniferous era, so that life for once has been able to live
beyond its income. Had it but known it, it might have
been a merrier age! So, if atomic energy is ever tapped,
an outburst of human activity would occur such as would
make the triumphs of our times seem tawdry, and primitive
humanity's struggles for energy as the fantastic memory of
some horrid dream.
Is SCIENCE ACOURSED 1
But what is gained merely by magnifying a scale 1
Would an enlarged reproduction of the present age satisfy
any human soul 1 Awkward questions demand an answer.
With all this new wealth the poverty of our ancestors has
not been abolished, but has come back in a monstrous
form. A growing army of unemployed, without proper
means of subsistence, haunt a world capable .of producing
far more than it consumes, so that in a sense, new in history,
the poor have become subservient to the rich even for
permission to earn their livelihood. Is science accursed 1
What is the evil genius that perverts even the fulfilment
of our sanest hopes and labours, and makes progress more

INTRODUCTORY

31

like a nightmare climb among slippery slopes of everincreasing steepness, than the mass march of humanity
along a broad high road, made straight and smooth by
increasing knowledge, order and law 1 It is idle to aspire
to a more dangerously exalted civilisation until something
of the definiteness and certainty of the economics of a fuelengine can be extended to the economy of men. So that
the crying need becomes not for ever and ever greater
accessions of physical power, but for the knowledge how to
secure the fruits of what we already possess. The strong
still plunder the weak, nations and individuals alike, whereas
there is that in the growth of knowledge which would make
the whole world kin. But that cannot come about until
we understand what is wrong, nor whilst we attribute to an
economic system mysterious powers which a physicist would
laugh at.
ApPLIED SOIENCE AND ROOT SOIENCE.

So as we drop back into the present from, as it were,
a telescopic anticipation of a far remote future, the voices
of the market-place fall somehow upon ears that hear with
a difference. Scientific men are temperamentally unsuited
to the tasks of government, but they might make valuable
technical contributions in the wider problems of transport,
the better utilisation of our natural resources, the more
efficient training of labour. The nitrogen of the air might
be wedded to the spirit of the waterfall to fertilise our soil
in peace-time, so that we may breed more men, and again,
to make high explosives in war-time to blow up the surplus,
a veritable sine qua non of modern civilisation. Or, again,
in agriculture, science could assist in breeding better brands
of wheat, in making a Burgoyne's Fife that will outcrop
the traditional Square Head's Master and stand the climate
better. In Empire development, too, with its wealth of
tropical possessions uninhabitable by the white man,
science alone can hope to cope with the scourge of malaria
and allay the ravages of sleeping sickness, and if our civil

32

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

servants were pathologists, instead of morbid students of
the pathology of human nature, much might be achieved.
Again, looking on what government is, and on how the
actions of the peoples may be swayed by expert appeals to
their feelings and enthusiasms, psychology, the youngest
of the sciences, might be roped in to lead humanity out of
the morass into which it has been tumbled by the too-rapid
growth of knowledge. Whilst, like the undertow of life,
breaking on the obstructions that bar its flow, a ceaseless warning booms religiously of the scientific spirit and its
search after truth for its own sake, without which there
esn be no hope of regeneration for society.
SCIENOE AND GOVERNMENT.

Are we any nearer the root of the matter ~ This book
deals with none of these things. It does not deny their scope
and possibilities in these days of universal education and
the growth of intellectual interests, should civilisation last.
It is concerned rather with the difference that comes over
the familiar viewed from a fresh standpoint. The contribution of a physical scientist from the starting-point of physical
science, it has nothing to do with technology or engineering,
with psychology or the inculcation of the scientific spirit,
but with the problem of government in its highest form !
Just as in biology, materialism has proved itself fruitful
and vitalism sterile in the winning of new knowledge, not
in the least because organisms are merely machines, but
because, whatever else they may be, they obey the ascertainable laws of physics and chemistry, so in the tasks of
government it would seem that a great clarification may
result by applying to their elucidation common physical
conceptions that are a truism in the inanimate world.
The theme, in various stages of development, has already
been the subject of numerous public lectures and discussions
and of two pamphlets.! The validity of the argument and
1 Oartuian Economics: The Bearing of Physical Science on State
StewMrhhip, 1922, and The Inversion oJ Science and a Scheme of Scientific
Reformation, 1924. Hendersons.

INTRODUCTORY

33

the deductions therefrom, though sufficiently challenging,
have never been publicly challenged. But some have
desired a fuller and less elliptical treatment. The attempt
to meet this led the author very much further into the
subject than he ever hoped or expected to be able to penetrate, and finally, in his own estimation, to the definite
solution of the economic paradox of the age. He found
himself rather like Saul of Tarsus being converted into
St. Paul, setting out to persecute the economists and ending,
if not by becoming one-they may not be quite as forgiving
a body as the early Christians-hopeful of ultimate reconoilation. At least he now has a more lively respect
for the subtle pitfalls with which the subject abounds, and
the impossibility of avoiding them all without some such
mariner's compass as the physicist's laws of conservation.
Behind and aloof from the jostling of the individual members
of the community, each intent on his own affairs, there
exists an almost unknown science of national economics,
as far removed from disinterested controversy as the propositions of geometry, and as simple, relatively, as the gaslaws obeyed by all gases in common are in contrast to the
infinite complexity of the laws that regulate the behaviour
of their component molecules. In this vital field at least
there should, in this age, be no longer any room for
bickering.
Scientific men have been repeatedly urged to co-operate
in finding the solution of the problems that threaten our
times. This is an unauthorised and individual contribution
to a subject which is usually tabooed by them. It must
not be taken as representing any but the author's own
original studies in the subject. It would be a pity if it
were taken as in any way reflecting upon the reputation for
vision and nobility of thought which contemporaneous
science has inherited as the result of the work of its early
pioneers-after they were safely dead.

CHAPTER II

LIFE'S DISCOVERIES
DISCOVERY, SUB-CONSCIOUS AND CONSCIOUS.
THE keynote of the age is discovery, and liie itself is discovery. Once made, countless generations may use it and
live by it without conscious apprehension of the nature of
it, without further changing their mode of livelihood, and,
indeed, deeming it the only possible way to live. Another
discovery displaces them, and a new species with new
functions arises in the scheme of evolution. As with the
origin of species, so it is with the economics of life of modern
societies, though the first process is infinitely slow whilst
the second is now alarming in its rapidity.
"No one by taking thought can add a cubit to his
stature," and the origin of species in the community mirrors
the apparently irrational sub-conscious growth of the
individual organism. It is inherent and independent of
the will. Individuals are born in mystery, develop with
sheep-like fidelity into adults, breathe, circulate their
blood, digest their food, and secrete the complex enzymes
and hormones, the exact nature of which baffles the most
skilled chemists, independently of their reasoning faculty
and usually in total ignorance of the simplest principles of
the sciences of which they are such astonishing examples.
The origin of species is equally baffling. Men grew
apparently from the lower orders of the animals utterly
unconsciously and only recently informed of the fact.
Whereas, if we consider the successive steps of discovery
and invention by which the scientific age has developed
from its forerunner, it appears totally different. The

LIFE'S DISCOVERIES

35

evolution of the steam engine and motor-car from the
stage coach, with numberless inventors taking thought
over each tiny step and a few succeeding, seems as unlike
as it well could be from the way, for example, the amphibians
first invaded and brought life up on to the dry land.
Yet, if we take a broader view, more parallel with what,
after all, at this distant epoch, must be that of a biologist
trying to account for the origin of species, is there really
such a vast difference 1 Did James Watt see himself, as
his biographers have seen him, stretching forth his hand
to the mighty lever that was to uplift civilisation 1 Is the
average man even dimly conscious of the direction in which
he is going 1 He may be profoundly conscious of malaise
in the social constitution, possibly as many missing links
in the evolution of species felt out of tune with their environment before they disappeared. For a full century after the
discoveries which were to change the economic life of the
world, the more vocal not only remained almost oblivious
but denied that any real change had occurred at all.
The earlier cruder theories of the origin of species-that
it was due to the infinitesimal differences that occur among
the individuals of a species, under the purely impersonal
and external operation of the law of the survival of the
fittest leading by a process of natural selection to the origin
of new species-are probably no longer held by modern
biologists. Clearly, until we have an intelligible theory
of normal individual growth, we can hardly hope for one
to account for the great and apparently discontinuous
departures from the normal which have produced new
species. Selection may favour new growths but cannot
account for them. Parallel with this earlier view, and the
obvious reflection of it, we have the theory that human
progress, from the primitive savage to the highly intellectual
and powerful races of to-day, has been a sequence of infinitely small steps forced upon the attention of humanity by
external necessity, and that it is something like pure chance
which among the masses happens to take the step first and
so to make the discovery. Such a view of human progress

36

WEALTH,

VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

and genius is certainly not true of the scientific discoveries
of the present era, it is contrary to the experience of every
teacher, it could not be applied to art, literature, or music,
and is probably not true of human progress at all.
The discoverer, though he may not know how he makes
a discovery, knows that these philosophers know less. He
bitterly resents the view of the general public towards
discoveries, that they are the normal fruits of progress,
whereas progress is, on the contrary, the fruit of discovery,
and discovery is not a normal but an exceptional event.
Doubtless the nameless discoverers of the arts of smelting
bronze and tempering steel felt no better used. Pending a.
fuller explanation of the origin of species, we may extend
our sympathies to the more man-like of the monkeys.
If we keep our attention on the plain facts of the case,
rather than upon theories which seem to obliterate the
facts, we find both in biological and human history, not
continuity but a succession of great discoveries-whether
made gradually or slowly, whether by the power of inherent
growth or of reason-which, once made, do alter abruptly
the whole future trend and mode of existence. Looking
backwards through the eyes of historians and economists
who have never made a discovery, or of biologists who have
as yet not originated a new species, all the steps are slurred
over, the dull uneventful interludes fade out, and though
the record is of steady continuous progress, the reality was
a fitful series of surprises. Looking forwards, discovery
partakes much more of the character of a sub-conscious
growth akin to that which originated species, and as independent of the consciousness of society as digestion is
of the will. Whether Nature jumps or not, life undoubtedly
does so.
THE UNBROKEN FLOW OF ENERGY FROM THE INANIMATE
WORLD INTO LIFE.

Chlorophyll, if not the first discovery of life, must have
been a. very early one. It is doubtful if any life known to

LIFE'S DISCOVERIES

37

us to-day, and scientifically studied, would survive if that
discovery were wiped out. For this green colouring
matter of vegetation is the door through which energy
enters the living world. The vegetable kingdom still holds
the only key to the original source of natural energy, sunshine, and everything living draws the wherewithal to live
from the vegetable kingdom through the instrumentality of
the dye chlorophyll acting as a transformer of solar energy.
It has been known for nearly a century, but the implications of the knowledge are often forgotten, that, with few
and economically unimportant exceptions, the whole of
the energy that makes the world a going concern comes
from the sun. The internal energy of the living organism is
neither created by the organism nor provided by Providence
or usury. It gets there through the bodies of plants, and
of animals that in turn feed upon plants, from the sun in
the form of radiation.

THE INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL LIFE-USE OF ENERGY.
It is convenient and practical to make a distinction
between the internal energy of life, which maintains metabolism, and the external energy which an animal or plant
can use in doing work on its environment, the plant in
overcoming resistance to the growth of its roots and the
spread of its branches, and the animal in locomotion and
other movements. With draught-cattle and men, a large
proportion of the whole energy of the food consumed may
go to the performance of external work. Much of this
again may be used merely in overcoming dead resistance,
so being transformed into heat, as was first shown by the
classic experiments of Count Rumford in 1798, on the
continuous boiling of water during the boring of cannon
by machinery turned by horses, and as, indeed, was discovered by most primitive peoples, before contact with
civilisation, and used to kindle fire. But when the work is
done against an active resistance, as in lifting weights
against gravity, it may be stored or accumulated as work

38

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

in potential form, recoverable again, as work, for example,
by allowing the weight to fall. Just as a clock must be
wound up and provided with a store of available energy
before it will go, so a man has to be wound up before he can
wind a clock, and the economics of life deals primarily with
the ways in which Nature winds up man. The natural
tendency of energy to degrade itself at one stage into worthless heat must be circumvented, so that there is something
useful at the end to show for it, something, that is, that, at
will, can be turned into work again, and used in life.
Now, as regards the internal energy of life, though there
are no theoretical barriers to an artificial synthesis of the
foodstuffs that furnish it-from such entirely inanimate
materials and powers as, say, graphite and water, and the
energy of a wind-mill-in practice, it all still comes through
the plant. The vast extension of our food supply, which
in this country now enables us to feed a population greater
by at least five times than in the pre-scientific era, has
been indirectly effected by the purely inanimate primemovers used both in transporting the produce of far-distant
countries, and in displacing human and animal labour, in
the technical sense of physical work, upon the farm. Also,
sources of water-power running to waste have been harnessed, and some of their energy stored by chemical processes to give fertilisers which increase the productivity
of the soil. Some of these bring to the plant already
energised nitrogen, which it cannot itself produce, but
for which it is dependent either on bacterial parasites or
upon the natural meagre supply from the air produced
by the action of lightning flashes and the rays of radium.
Here, as frequently, we are following a single thread,
because it is continuous-the flow of energy in nature and
how life makes use of it. This does not mean that other
factors are unimportant, or negligible, but simply that, if
we pursue this unbroken thread, certain physical conclusions emerge which are independent of all other
considerations and to which life must always conform.
In the present case, for example, a large and increasing

LIFE'S DISCOVERIES

39

share of the credit for an increased food-supply is due to
the work of biologists in breeding new varieties of wheat.
Possibly future races of men may feed their internal
fires in the same way as we perform external labour, with
inanimate energy. But until entirely new discoveries are
made, agriculture remains still the key industry of life.
All that science has been able to do has been of indirect
assistance. Fundamentally it remains unchanged, as the
collection of sunlight by the agency of chlorophyll and its
transformation into the chemical energy of foodstuffs,
either directly or through the intermediate transforming
agency of animals. The depression which has overtaken
it in this country is of local rather than world significance.
It is not in this field, but solely as regards the external
energy of life, that science now so largely passes life by and
draws directly on purely inanimate energy as it is found
in nature, without the necessity of passing it through
living bodies. True, men are still necessary, though fewer
every year, as routine tasks become more and more automatically performed by machines. But the function has
changed. The worker contributes now only an insignificant part of the work required from his own body. He is
there rather to contribute intelligence. From a labourer
he has become the director of an artificial process,
circumventing the natural tendency of energy to go to
waste by diligence rather than by strength.
THE ORIGINS OF AVAILABLE ENERGY.

The doctrine of energy teaches that although energy is
conserved in all processes, and is never either created or
destroyed, it has a natural tendency to pass at once into
the useless and unavailable form, which is the ultimate end
of all kinetic energy-namely, heat of the same temperature as the surroundings. Life is by no means the only
process of economic significance by which this tendency
is circumvented, but it is by far the most important. In
this respect, machines are merely imitations of life, for
they all possess some replica of an intelligence to perform

40

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

an artificial cycle of operations chosen in the first instance
by the brain of the designer.
Nowadays, the process of greatest economic importance
by means of which the revenue of solar energy is transformed
into a useful or " available" form without the intervention
of life is that by which water-power originates. A minute
fraction of the energy that falls upon the ocean escapes
total degradation into useless heat and evaporates the
water. By a natural process-very similar, however, to
that which is made artificially to occur in the steam engine
-the water vapour ascends and suffers" adiabatic cooling
and expansion." It so performs useful work upon itself
in climbing against gravity. It chills as it ascends, until
it is condensed again as rain, collects in rivers, which drive
water-wheels and turbines on their course to the ocean.
The wind-power, which formerly was of greater economic
importance in navigation, and in irrigation and reclamation
by means of wind-mills, is in a precisely analogous category.
It is, however, a relatively very insignificant part of the
solar income, which escapes the vigilance of life in the first
instance that so offers it a second chance. The origin of
oil energy is doubtful, and will be referred to again. Tidal
power is in the exceptional category. of not being derived
from radiation. It is furnished from the energy of revolution of the moon round the earth, and of the rotation of
the earth on its axis. For this reason, the period of the
day and lunar month are increasing slowly over secular
periods of time, and in the end the terrestrial day must
become the same as the terrestrial year, just as already the
lunar day is the same as the lunar month. The energy of
volcanoes and hot springs is derived from the internal heat
of the earth, but the origin of this is doubtful in the same
sense as the origin of oil energy, and this will be referred
to again later.
THE PHYSICAL CHEMISTRY OF METABOUSM.

Let us now turn to the main sources of energy in nature
rendered available for life by the action of life. That part

LIFE'S DISCOVERIES

41

of the solar income which falls on opaque objects goes
instantly into heat, and swiftly after that, by conduction,
to heat of temperature uniform with the surroundings.
In this form it consists of the energy of movement of the
ultimate molecules of which matter is made. As kinetic
energy, it still exists in undiminished amount, but it is
useless. The motions in question are distributed in every
direction, or perfectly deco-ordinated, whereas mechanical
energy is essentially energy directed in a definite direction
of space. It is impossible again to co-ordinate the direction,
without performing more work than is gained, though,
whilst the heat is of higher temperature than its surroundings, use may be made of its natural tendency to
flow into cooler objects, to reconvert a small part of it back
into mechanical energy again.
But when the solar energy falls upon the chlorophyll
of vegetation it is not turned into heat, but into chemical
energy. Few probably of those who have experienced the
cool relief from the sunshine on entering a dense forest,
realise that it is due to something more than mere shade.
The forest is one of the units of Nature's primary transformer house, which in efficiency and scale makes all the
works of men seem insignificant. The sunshine is no
longer degraded into heat by battling against an opaque
resistance, but is, though only to a small extent, transformed into a store of potential energy in the timber,
recoverable again when the wood is burned.
In some wholly mysterious, but still purely physical
process, the chlorophyll brings together the energy of the
waves of light and the material carbon dioxide and moisture
of the air, producing from them oxygen and the carbohydrates - formaldehyde, and the many varieties of sugar,
dextrin or gums, starch and cellulose, enumerated in order
of increasing molecular complexity. As the name" carbohydrate" indicates, they are all made of carbon and water.
Of old this would have been considered a chemical synthesis
effected by and dependent upon the living organism itself.
But now it is known to be due to a process the chemist

42

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

calls catalysis, in which a reaction that can take place
without disobedience to the laws of energy, but nevertheless does not take place, can take place in the presence of
a minute quantity of a substance, called a catalyst, which
does not itself, apparently, react and which remains unchanged. Buchner, in 1897, found that an extract from
yeast, in which all trace of the living yeast cells had been
obliterated, still fermented sugar into alcohol like the
living plant. The action is due to a catalyst, or enzyme,
as it is generally termed in bio-chemistry, secreted by the
organism, but not itself either organised or alive. Purely
mineral substances, such as finely divided platinum and
other metals, possess similar powers in inorganic reactions.
Though the action of chlorophyll is probably catalytic,
i.e. its presence enables other substances to react which do
not react in its absence, yet in this case there is the additional feature, which gives the process its outstanding
importance, that the chemical reaction cannot go on at all
except with the continuous supply of energy furnished by
the light. The chlorophyll, in fact, effects the marriage
of energy and matter. It is a photo-chemically active
catalyst, secreted by the living plant, but itself simply a
substance, neither organised nor alive.
When fuel is burned, or food is consumed in metabolism,
the reaction which takes place is just the reverse of that
produced by chlorophyll in sunlight. The carbohydrates
are burnt to carbon dioxide and water by the oxygen of
the air, and energy in the form of heat is given out. To
unburn the carbon dioxide and water back into carbohydrates and oxygen, the energy given out during the
combustion must be refurnished. This is what the plant
accomplishes. The "ner~y of the sunshine, in presence of
chlorophyll, re-enters the dead products of combustion
and metabolism, the oxygen is re-liberated into the air,
and the compounds of carbon and water formed are stored
up in the plant's tissues.
A world originating as ours is supposed to have done,
as a planet thrown off from the parent sun, during its

LIFE'S DISCOVERIES

43

evolution from a nebula, may be regarded as having been
well " burnt" in the first instance. By the time it was a
fit abode for life all the carbon, one must suppose, would
exist combined with oxygen. This raises the question of
the origin of life from a new angle. How can chlorophyll
arise except by life, and how could life maintain itself
except by chlorophyll 1 For chlorophyll is an exceeding
complicated carbon compound, provisionally regarded by
chemists as compounded out of 55 atoms of carbon, 72 of
hydrogen, 4 of nitrogen, 5 of oxygen and one of the metal
magnesium. It has not yet been made artificially, and
the nature of its molecular structure-which is always a
necessary preliminary step in any artificial synthesisremains in considerable doubt. One can hardly regard
this particular compound as coming into existence naturally
without life, and yet its existence as we know it is essential
to the life-process. Brown varieties of it are known as in
the brown algee, which, chemically, are indistinguishable
from the green. We may suppose that life began with
simpler photo-chemically active catalysts than chlorophyll,
and possibly even used in the, first instance purely mineral
substances as catalysts. But as far as we have yet traced
back the origin of life, it is already making use of an extremely complex and peculiar substance in order to obtain the
energy it requires from the sunlight by what is essentially
a very remarkable and, indeed, almost unique type of
action. The whole range of chemistry and bio-chemistry
affords hardly any parallel. Certainly no chemical product
is made industrially by any process at all analogous to the
natural methods of manufacturing starch and cellulose.
We hear so often of the practical triumphs of chemistry,
that it may come as a surprise to the reader that no chemist
has as yet the most rudimentary theory of why a chemical
change takes place at all. The statement that the products
of combustion are unburnt into carbohydrates and oxygen,
by the energy of sunlight, in presence of a photo-chemically
active catalyst chlorophyll, is a description, not an explanation. We have, however, got as far as suspecting that

44

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

before any chemical change at all can take place, some
preliminary process of "activisation," as it is termed, of
the reacting molecules must occur, and that radiation, in
general, is the agent which transforms the normal chemically
inactive molecule into one that will react with another,
when it crosses its path. Solar radiation is in the middle
of the long gamut of radiation, which extends from the
waves used in wireless transmission on the long-side of
wave-length, to the X-rays of Rontgen and the y-rays of
radium on the short-side. We are apt to forget that all
known substances are hot, in the sense that a cold body is
one without heat-energy at all-which is one at the unattainable absolute zero of temperature, - 2730 C. All are,
like the sun, radiating energy. The amount at ordinary
temperature is very small, and the wave-length of the rays
is on the long-side of the visible light region. That is, the
radiation is of dark-heat rays until we reach the temperature
of visible red-heat. But it is always going on, and some
modern theories of chemical change appeal to this darkheat radiation as the activising agent that precedes even
the commonest and most spontaneous chemical reactions.
If this view proves well-founded, every chemical reaction
becomes analogous to that effected by the plant. The whole
topic is itself an illustration of how life intuitively arrives
at discoveries, which the reason only makes long after and
with the utmost difficulty.
COAL AND OIL.

In earlier years, the geologists tell us, life originated in
the sea and, from there, invaded the land. Long before
animal evolution had proceeded very far, vegetation flourished in excessive abundance in the form of giant tree-ferns,
the fossilised remains of which furnish our coal measures
to-day. In this, the carboniferous era, the temperature
must have been higher and the amount of carbon-dioxide
and water vapour in the air higher than to-day. It was
under such conditions that the immense stores of energy
upon which, almost entirely, modern civilisation depends,

LIFE'S DISCOVERIES

45

were laid down and accumulated. This accumulation is
entirely the work of life. So far as is known, nothing of
the kind is happening to-day, and human development,
as we know it, is entirely dependent upon a favourable
conoatenation of biological and geological events untold
ages ago.
The origin of mineral oils is uncertain. They consist
essentially of compounds of carbon and hydrogen, or
hydrocarbons. There are, broadly, two probable origins,
both of which may have operated. From the frequent
occurrence of traces of marine organisms in natural oil it
has been surmised that it may have resulted from the
decomposition, and subsequent transformation under heat
and pressure, of the remains of fishes, which in earlier times
may have inhabited the seas in greater abundance than
now. Without specially insisting on its animal origin, it
is quite conceivable that vegetable remains, like coal,
would meet in the earth favourable conditions for being
converted into oil. A modern technical process, still in the
experimental stage, known as the " berginisation " of coal,
transforms powdered coal, mixed with tar, into oil by heating
it with hydrogen under great pressure to a high temperature.
On the other hand, a purely inorganic origin is suggested
by the work of Moissan on the metallic carbides, which are
produced at the temperature of the electric furnace by
heating metals or their oxides with carbon. Thus calcium
carbide, obtained by so heating lime and coke, is universally
known as the source, when brought into contact with
water, of the gaseous hydrocarbon, acetylene. Other
metallic carbides give other hydrocarbons in the same way,
and from uranium carbide a mixture of liquid hydrocarbons,
very similar in character and constitution to natural
petroleum, has been obtained. It is almost certain that,
deep in the earth's interior, conditions of high temperature
and high pressure exist, which would cause the formation
of such carbides from their component elements if present.
If so, the production of petroleum by the subsequent
infiltration of water may be legitimately inferred.

46

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
SOLAR AND ATOMIC ENERGY.

The point is of some interest as, according to the first
theory, the origin of the energy of oil is the sunlight, and to
the second, the internal heat of the earth. That, again,
on the older views was regarded as part of the original
legacy of solar heat when the earth was expelled from a still
gaseous sun. But on modern views, developed by Joly,
the internal heat of the earth is being continuously maintained by the process of radioactivity. If so, oil, on the
second theory of its origin, derives its energy from the
atom. Its use thus represents an early step in the emancipation of life from entire dependence upon solar supplies.
The same is true of small uses of the earth's internal heat
that man has probably always practised, much as the
Maoris of Whakarewarewa, to-day, use the hot springs for
all their domestic needs. The people of Iceland even
grow vegetables, which the climate would not otherwise
permit, by their aid. The borax industry of Tuscany,
where the steam from 8uffioni is used to evaporate the water
from hot springs containing borax, is another example.
Indeed, the larger scale utilisation of such energy for power
was prospected during the War, owing to the dearness of
coal in Italy. It has even been suggested, not entirely
chimerically, that if coal failed the internal heat of the
earth might be drawn upon on a large scale by boring
sufficiently deep wells, and circulating water through them
under pressure, so converting it into steam.
As regards the energy of the sun itself, there seems little
reason to doubt that it also is due to atomic energy. True,
radioactivity and known processes of atomic disintegration
are far too special and limited to provide such immense
supplies. On the other hand, the theory of relativity has
introduced a new conception as to the relation between
energy and matter, which though as yet entirely without
experimental verification, is regarded as the only likely
explanation of the maintenance over cosmical epochs of
the prodigal evolution of energy from the sun and stars.

LIFE'S DISCOVERIES

47

This theory blends the laws of conservation of energy and
of matter into one, in the sense that matter is only conserved
when its energy is unchanged and that energy is only
conserved if mass is unchanged. Any loss of energy by a
system is accompanied by an actual loss of mass, though
infinitesimal and as yet totally unverifiable by experiment.
An annihilation of matter, if it could occur, would result
in the appearance of energy equal to twice that of the mass
lost moving with the speed of light. The loss of mass is
too small, in relation to the energy evolved, for it to have
been put into evidence, as yet, even in the most energetic
changes known. It is supposed that cosmical energy may
be the consequence of a slow process of material annihilation.
The evidence of stellar spectroscopy shows that stars
begin their incandescent career as hydrogen and helium,
and that only later do the heavier elements make their
appearance. It is inferred that the heavier elements are
formed by condensation from the lighter. If we take one
case, from the standpoint of modern views on atomic
structure, and suppose the gas hydrogen to be suffering,
in the stellar economy, a condensation into helium, so that
four atoms of the former coalesce to make one atom of the
latter, the process alone would go far to account for the
origin of cosmical energy. Because in so condensing into
helium, the four hydrogen atoms would experience a loss of
mass of about three parts in four hundred, the atomic
weight of hydrogen being 1· 0075, in terms of that of helium
as 4· 000. It is to some such source as this that the modern
cosmogonist appeals. The earlier stages in the evolution
of the elements-like the last stage, the breaking up of the
most complex elements in radioactivity-may be expected
to yield rather than require energy.
CIVILISATION SEEKS TO CONTROL THE FLOW OF ENERGY
FROM NEARER ITS SOURCE.

Having thus briefly dealt with the sources of energy
in nature, and with how, in the first instance, they
become available for life, the subsequent steps present

48

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

no novelty. The whole animal kingdom is distinguished
from the vegetable by its total inability to use natural
inanimate energy in its internal metabolism. This has,
first, to be stored in the tissues of plants, upon which
the herbivora feed. Carnivora are one similar step farther
removed from the original source, and omnivera, like men,
have two strings to their bow. From hunting and the chase
man more and more developed towards the domestication
of animals not only for food, but for wool, leather and the
raw materials of clothing. In more settled times, the same
tendency led to agriculture and the conscious cultivation
of natural plants both for food and raw materials. From
the energetic standpoint progress may be regarded as a
successive mastery and control over sources of energy
ever nearer the original source.
We may attempt to translate the salient facts of this
inquiry somewhat as follows. The diagram depicts the
flow of energy in nature from left to right. The line running
from solar energy to man is the line life has intuitively
developed by the inherent property of its own growth. The
lines pointing from right to left indicate the directions in
which man has reached out consciously to augment and
control the supplies, and the tendency of progress more
and more to short-circuit life out of the economic system.
Wumand

(Primitive DiSCOVEry)

---~ 'VATER POWER

+-.----------,

Line of Sub.Conscious Discovery
ATOMIC
?
SOLAR
VEGETABLE
ANIMAL
EN7GY - . - ENERGY ~ KINGDOM , , - KINGDOM?

~

:
!

,

-

I

.

t

COAL and

!
:

I;.-_

MAN

':!>.

0

XL
~

(? Future Discovery)

-

+-------------:
(Contemporaneous Discovery)

..•

CHAPTER III
THE BASIS OF NATIONAL ECONOMICS
THE STRUGGLE FOR ENERGY.
THOUGH it was not understood a century ago, and though
as yet the applications of the knowledge to the economics
of life are not generally realised, life in its physical
aspect is fundamentally a struggle for energy, in which
discovery after discovery brings life into new relations
with the original source. Evolutionary development has
been parasitic, higher and higher organisms arising and
obtaining the requisite supplies of energy by feeding upon
the lower. But with man and the development of conscious reason, that process as regards energy is being
reversed. Little by little the scaffolding on which he
ascended is being discarded, and he is consciously reaching
farther and farther back to the original sources of energy
for his life. At the present stage, in the twentieth century,
most of the external work of life can be better done by
machinery fed with fuel. In this direction there is still a
rapid development, though now probably past its most
active period. So long as the fuel supplies hold out, there
is literally no limit to the production of commodities
required for living that can be made in this way, as was
alluded to in the first chapter, if financial restrictions were
rendered inoperative, as they were during the War. Given
a plentiful supply of timber and similar raw materials,
this class of manufactured article covers most of the accessories and luxuries required for living, from houses and furniture to motor-cars and wireless sets. It comprises practically
all the tools, buildings and plant necessary for production,

50

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

transport and communication. To such agents of production
the chameleon-like term Oapital is confined in the sequel.
As regards food and raw materials of organic origin,
the extension of productivity, though practically enormous
and hardly less important than in the other categories, is
only indirectly favoured by the new step. Food is still
essentially produced entirely by the original agricultural
process. This is true also of raw materials of vegetable
and animal origin, though many of them can be replaced
by artificial substitutes of one kind or another, if the
natural products are unobtainable.
THE BROAD TEACHINGS OF THERMODYNAMICS.

Let us briefly review the great generalisations of the
early part of last century with regard to energy, which
apply not only to machines but with equal rigour to living
beings and the life of communities. They are usually
referred to as the First and Second Laws of Thermodynamics,
the name recalling their origin. They were, in the first
place, recognised for the relations between heat and work,
or between thermal and mechanical energy. But the principles are of universal application as between heat and
any form of energy. Language only very tardily overtakes ideas, and ideas precede, in point of time, linguistic
labels for them. The formal definitions of the laws of
thermodynamics would completely fail to convey any idea.
of their character to those not already possessed of it,
whereas descriptive statements lack the precision and
universality of the general idea. Those laws are essentially,
in the first instance, expressions of experience, tested
after their apprehension thoroughly and exhaustively by
experiment in new and still untried fields, but they are not
such as can yet be simply deduced from first principles.
THE IMPOSSIBILITY OF PERPETUAL MOTION MACHINES
OR MEN.

The First Law is easy to understand and is nothing
else than a statement of the law of conservation of energy.

THE BASIS OF NATIONAL ECONOMICS

51

It denies the possibility of a perpetual motion machine,
in which any prime mover-machine, molecular system, or
man-can continue to furnish work out of nothing, without
an equivalent amount of energy being supplied. A motorcar running without petrol or a man living without food
would be examples.
The forms assumed by physical energy are numerous,
but all forms are capable of conversion into, and of measurement as heat energy, much as any account, for the purpose
of reckoning, may be transformed into £ sterling, whatever
the original currency may be. Thus the scientific unit
of heat energy is the Calorie.! The Calorie is the amount
of heat necessary to raise a kilogram of water 1° Centigrade
(or 1 lb. of water 1·023° Fahrenheit). The British unit
of work or mechanical energy is the foot-pound, and the
metric unit the kilogram-metre. They represent the work
done in raising the weight through the distance specified,
or the kinetic energy possessed by that weight when it
has fallen freely under gravity from that distance. The
unit of power, known as the horse-power, is the power
required to lift 550 lb. one foot in one second, or 1 lb.
550 feet in one second, or 1 lb. one foot in 1/550th of a
second. The horse-power-hour is the work done by one
horse-power in one hour, and is roughly two million footpounds. If the work is done against dead resistance and
so converted completely into heat, without any of it being
stored up in a potential form, as in the lifting of a weight,
653· 6 Calories are produced from one horse-power every
hour. Or one horse-power-hour equals 653· 6 Calories.
In a similar way it is possible to evaluate the energy of
the foodstuffs required to maintain the average adult
man for a year. It is about a million Calories. This
amount of heat is given out if the food is burnt. Consumed
by a man, a small part may be given out as work in labour
and locomotion, but most of it always appears as bodily
heat. As a working mechanism, a man may be highly
efficient from the point of view of the part of the energy
1

When spelt with a small c a unit a thousand times less is indicated.

52

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

value of his food that appears as work. This sometimes
exceeds 30 per cent, and the very best steam engines
rarely approach this efficiency.
The First Law, as the law of conservation of energy,
is essentially quantitative. It expresses nothing as to the
quality or usefulness of the various sorts of energy. In itself
it neither affirms nor denies the physical possibility of eating
cake and still having it, for in place of the energy of food,
when it is eaten, we have an equivalent of heat-energy.
This is the province of the Second Law, which takes
into account the natural direction in which energy tends
to transform itself, from food-energy into waste heatenergy by consumption or decay, not from waste heatenergy into food-energy, which would be an unnatural
process. An unnatural process in this sense is not necessarily physically impossible, but is always economically
impossible as a means of saving work, i.e. of using the
same energy twice over, or, more generally, of arriving at
a perpetuum mobile by employing the same energy over
and over again indefinitely.
In its practical significance energy itself is of no importance. It is the flow of energy from one form to another
and from one place to another that alone is of importance.
This flow always occurs in one natural direction, and it
can only be reversed in direction by making more energy
flow down stream, so to speak, than flows up. As this
analogy suggests, a flow of energy has some of the characteristics of a river, and, indeed, the laws of thermodynamics
were originally arrived at on the then prevalent view of
heat as an actual fluid. When, later, the kinetic viewthat heat is due to the deco-ordinated energy of agitation
of the individual molecules of matter-became general,
the second law of thermodynamics became less easy rather
than more easy to deduce from first principles.
ILLUSTRATIVE PHYSICAL PROCESSES.

It is easy to imagine a process in which weights, for
example, are caused to rise against gravity by the fall of

THE BASIS OF NATIONAL ECONOMICS

03

heavier weights. Just about the time when the steam
engine came into general use a method of performing
human labour was discovered, far more efficient than any
other. It was used in building some of the fortifications
of Paris, and, but for the steam engine, would probably
have by now become very general. The workman works
by walking up a flight of steps, and descending by a rope,
to which is attached the load he has to lift, and which is
only a little less than his own weight. In this way he can
do many times as much work as with a wheelbarrow or
with any of the older methods.
The ease with which all other forms of energy tend to
pass into heat-energy is paralleled by the difficulty of
reversing the process. Heat tends to flow from a region
of higher temperature to one of lower, just as water tends
to flow downhill. To reverse the process is like making
water run uphill-an artificial process requiring, as well ae
a mechanical appliance, respectively a pump or a refrigerating plant, the expenditure of work. It is easy to see why
you have to do work to pump water uphill, because you
can get the work back again when the water pumped up
is allowed to flow down. But in a modified form the same
is true of a flow of heat.
A perpetual motion machine of the second sort, as it
is termed, would not contravene the First Law of conservation, but would the Second Law of usefulness. Such
a machine would be the equivalent of a man eating food
and turning it into carbon dioxide, water and heat, and
then putting back the heat-energy gained into the carbon
dioxide and water and remaking the food. The plant
does this, not with spent heat-energy, but with fresh
energy of radiation, and radiant heat from a body at high
temperature, though similar in name to heat-energy, is a
very high quality and a very available form of energy, at
the opposite end of the scale to the low temperature heatenergy into which it is naturally degraded.
In the steam engine, the natural tendency for heat to
pass from a higher to a lower temperature is used to perform

54

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

the unnatural process of converting heat into work. Any
natural process-whether the how of water downhill, the
flow of heat from a hot body to a cooler one, or the flow
of a gas from a higher pressure to a lower one---can, at
least in theory, be so directed and performed as to convert
a part at least of the flow of energy into mechanical energy
or work. But how much of it can be so converted is
different for different kinds of energy. Apart from incidental losses, such as are due to the imperfections of any
actual mechanism-its friction, resistance, and so on-and
which can be reduced indefinitely by better and more
"ideal" contrivances, some flows of energy are completely
convertible into work and others only partially. An electric
motor will-but for the incidental losses referred toconvert the electric energy with which it is supplied completely into mechanical energy, and, even in practice, very
high efficiencies, exceeding 90 per cent, are attainable.
But a flow of heat can never, even in " ideal" circumstances,
be more than partially converted into work. Neglecting,
as before, all incidental losses due to practical mechanical
imperfections, the maximum proportion of any flow of heat
capable of being converted into work is stated by the
Second Law in its quantitative form as follows."
In the flow of heat from a higher temperature, T 10 A.,
to a lower temperature, T 2° A., out of every T 1 units of
heat T 2 units are not convertible, and must remain
unchanged as heat whatever process is under consideration; but there is the opportunity or possibility-never
easy, and often practically impossible, to realise--of converting T 1 - T 2 units at most into mechanical energy by
suitable mechanical and other appliances. Thus, in practice,
a steam engine, which is supplied with live steam at
200° C. (473° A.) and which rejects the steam to the
condenser at 40 0 C. (313° A.), can-apart from all losses
1 Note on the Absolute Temperature Scale: The Real or Absolute
Zero of temperature, expressed in the Centigrade scale, is - 273° C.
That is to say, at this temperature matter would possess no heat-energy
at all. The Absolute Scale of Temperature is derived from-the Centigrade
lICBle by simply adding 273°. Thus 15° C. is 288° A.

THE BASIS OF NATIONAL ECONOMICS

55

due to frictional and other resistances and imperfectionsnever convert more than tH-, or about one-third, of the
heat-energy with which it is supplied into work. The
internal-combusion engine, in which the heat-energy is
supplied by the explosion of gaseous mixtures, at temperatures in the neighbourhood of white heat (2,000° A.),
is thermally far more " efficient" than any steam engine.
As an example of a practical process in which the
natural flow of energy is reversed-for some special practical
purpose-we may take refrigeration, which essentially is
the pumping of heat out of a cold body into a hotter body,
the latter being usually at the temperature of the surrounding air. In this process it is as necessary to expend
work as in pumping water up from a well to ground-level.
In practice, refrigeration is effected by first using the work
that has to be done, to compress a gas whereby this work
is converted into heat (the natural direction of the flow
of energy), so that the gas gets hot. The hot compressed
gas is cooled to the temperature of the surroundings (again
the natural direction of the flow of energy). Then the
compressed gas is allowed to expand and do work, which
is the reversal of the first process. The gas is cooled below
the temperature of the surroundings by reason of the work
which it is made to do being taken from it at the expense
of its heat-energy. In this way, paradoxically, work is
first converted into heat to gain the opportunity at a
later stage of converting heat into work. But unless work
is first spent in compressing the gas, against its natural
tendency to expand, we could not later make use of this
natural tendency of gases to expand to overcome the
natural disinclination of heat to turn into work.
Although heat is not a material fluid, the Second Law
is thus much what it would be if it were, and if the temperature of the heat above its surroundings corresponded
to the height of the fluid above the level. To raise water
from a well requires work, and to refrigerate a substance
requires work. The task of converting waste heat-energy
of uniform temperature into work is like trying to get

56

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

water-power from the ocean. The absolute zero of waterlevel would be the centre of the earth, and the absolute
zero of temperature or heat-level would be - 2730 C. But
outlets to the earth's centre and condensers at absolute
zero are not possible, and in each case the practical zero
level is far above, being the sea-level in the one case and the
temperature of the earth in the other.
WEALTH AS A FORM OR PRODUCT OF ENERGY.
UNLIMITED PRODUCIBILITY.

ITS

We thus arrive at the conclusion that any sort of
perpetual motion is impossible. A continuous stream
of fresh energy is necessary for the continuous working
of any working system, whether animate or inanimate. Life
is cyclic as regards the material substances consumed, and
the same materials are used over and over again in
metabolism. But as regards energy, it is unidirectional,
and no continuous cyclic use of energy is even conceivable.
If we have available energy, we may maintain life and
produce every material requisite necessary. That is why
the flow of energy should be the primary concern of
economics. In a world which has adequate supplies of
energy, scientific knowledge and inventions for utilising it,
and the man-power able and willing to perform the necessary duties and services, poverty and destitution are purely
artificial institutions, due to ignorance of the principles of
government, actively, if not deliberately, fostered for class
ends by legal conventions confounding wealth with debt.
Under any scientific system of government they would
disappear like small-pox and malaria, by means of preventive rather than ameliorative or curative measures.
It is, of course, perfectly well understood by those who
have studied the subject, that consumable wealth is not
like gold, silver, radium, or other elements that exist only
in small quantities in the earth and which cannot yet be
artificially made. The attraction of such substances as
measures of wealth, upon which to base monetary value,

THE BASIS OF NATIONAL ECONOMICS

57

is, of course, in the power over the debtor they put into
the hands of the creditor. Money, in fact, becomes a
monopoly, and this monopoly is the real government.
Wealth, in the sense of the requisites of life, can now be
made as required, and has no relation whatever to such
ingenious financial devices. Its study has been sadly
neglected by the economist.
Although, to everyone except an engineer or a physicist,
energy seems to be quite a minor item in the production
of wealth, if we concern ourselves with what is used up
in the process of creating wealth, it is the largest and most
important item. Thus, in the cost of upkeep of a car the
petrol is a minor item. Till lately the tyres cost more. Yet,
if we pursue the tyres to their origin, we shall find how
much of their cost is due to expenditure of energy. They
call for a flow of the solar energy of a particular climate,
physical labour in rubber plantations, coal for the railways
and ships that transport the raw materials from the tropics,
as well as for the factories where it is made into tyres.
These railways and ships, again, and all the buildings and
equipment necessary for their manufacture, no less than
the materials they use-the iron and metals and the coal
which have to be mined-are the results of the expenditure
of physical energy. The armies of people these industries
maintain have to be supplied with food, clothes and houses,
and energy under intelligent human direction is the first
requisite for the supply of all such things.
POVERTY

and

UNEMPLOYMENT.
CONTRADICTION.

A

MONSTROUS

Much of this, of course, if not its implications, is well
understood to apply by the specialist, though usually the
source of wealth is not quite traced back as far as the
physical energy of sunshine. But long ages of penury and
subjection, to one form of injurious domination or another,
have accustomed people to look upon wealth as something
which, like gold, is essentially limited in amount, so that,

58

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

if some get much, others must go short to make up the
balance, rather than a quantity which scientific advances
have made capable of almost indefinite expansion. None
of the world's real problems centre to-day around the
mere provision of wealth. The difficulties arise rather in
getting rid of even a small part of what can be made,
without fighting for the privilege of either making or
selling it. But to people who think of wealth not in terms
of energy and human endeavour, but in terms of moneytokens, there seems to be nothing incongruous in the continuance of the acute economic suffering into which Europe
has been plunged, nor any evidence of failure in the most
elementary function of government in the spectacle of
unemployment and poverty at one and the same time.
THE CHANGE FROM LABOUR TO DILIGENCE.

The elementary discussion of the principles of thermodynamics which has been attempted may not prove entirely
superfluous if it directs attention to what is probably the
most prevalent confusion in all sociological thought at the
present time, between what is here termed work or energy
in the purely physical sense and what passes for it in
common language. A manual labourer does supply out
of his own body the energy of the physical labour he
performs. Part of his food goes to produce it. He is a
self-contained prime-mover. But a man tending a machine
may "work hard" in the ordinary sense without doing
any real physical work, to speak of, at all. His real function
has changed. His action is what in physics is known with
sufficient expressiveness as "trigger-action." In the action
of a trigger an amount of energy is liberated which has
no relation to the work of pulling the trigger, and in
operating any power-driven appliance it is the same. A
woman who complains that a woman's work is never done
means that in the domestic operations of cooking, cleansing,
and generally providing for the requirements of a household, there is a continuous drain upon her attention and

THE BASIS OF NATIONAL ECONOMICS

59

mental activities, and that the multifarious tasks of household management are endless. She is not usually complaining against the actual physical labour and exertion
involved in any of these tasks, but of the long and
fatiguing round of perpetual vigilance which they exact.
Particularly in this field, perhaps, we have still a combination
of some physical labour with continuous mental attention,
and though labour-saving devices have done much to
relieve the drudgery of house management, in the domestic
sphere, as also in the transport services and many others,
we have good examples of tasks which require both individual care and effort which no growth of science is likely
altogether to supplant. Whereas in a factory, engaged
in a definitely routine production, only a very small and
unimportant part of the actual physical work involved
may be contributed by the workers, and this amount is
capable of almost indefinite reduction, as machines become
more and more automatic. The necessity for unremitting
attention to the work in hand remains, though fewer
workers are necessary. It is mere boredom to a man
who could manage comfortably to attend to a dozen
automatic machines to be restricted by trade-union rules
to tending only one.
In this connection, as regards industries which are
supposed to demand a supply of cheap uneducated labour
and the blind-alley occupations which take children from
school and do not provide any chance of a reasonable
livelihood for an adult, it is a very open question whether
they are not the natural result of such labour being plentiful.
At least in America, the restriction of immigration was
held to threaten the existence of some industries which
depended on the continuous supply of cheap, underpaid
labour from Europe. But experience showed that when
the supply was cut off, it was easy to readapt the industries
concerned to the new conditions. In general, it may well
be doubted whether any occupation, however much it may
seem to demand a coarse, animal-like type of worker-or
the services of hosts of children and youths, as in delivering

60

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

newspapers and household supplies-could not to-day be
done better if such were entirely eliminated, by proper
business organisation and more up-to-date methods.
The function of the worker, since the introduction of
mechanical power, has totally changed in many industries,
and in none is the change unimportant. More and more
he does not work in the physical sense, but is directing
an inanimate source of power to do what, left alone, it
could not do.
In many industries, as in the mass production of motorcars, or of any kind of machinery which has gone through
its rapid period of evolution and arrived at something
like a final and permanent form, the rule will be for greater
output with the employment of ever fewer hands, as the
processes involved become more and more automatically
controlled. Yet there is no chance, even here, of entirely
dispensing with the human worker. His task, physically
lighter, becomes mentally ever more monotonous and
uninteresting. Whilst, if we look round at the multifarious needs of the world, from domestic management
and transport of goods and passengers to mining-the
source, after all, of the new wealth-there remains a
sufficiency of hard work in the sense of continuous diligence, if not in the scientific sense, permanently to occupy
a large part of the world's population for some part at
least of the day. Science, more and more displacing human
and animal labour, does not displace the labourer, but
tends to transform his function. It should give him for
an hour's attention what before he got for twelve hours'
work.
Mining, building, road-making and maintenance, transport, and, last but not least, agriculture, are unnatural
processes in the thermodynamical sense. In thermodynamics the distinction between useless energy and useful
turns on the direction and the dissipation of this direction.
A useful form is that which has some definite direction in
which it tends to flow. A useless form is that in which
the direction is internally" higgledy-piggledy," the smallest

THE BASIS OF NATIONAL ECONOMICS

61

possible parts moving perpetually, equal numbers in all
possible directions, at one and the same time. An unnatural
process consists in directing a flow of energy in its natural
direction, in such a way that it cannot so flow without
performing some useful task and doing some work necessary
for living. This is the third essential factor in the creation
of wealth, the function which, of old-time, used to be
termed" labour," but to-day would be much better termed
" diligence." Few are the exceptions in a civilisation
worthy of itself in which it would not now be better for
mere heavy physical labour to be done by mechanical
power.
Curiously, the" agricultural labourer" has always been
much more of a diligent tender of the labours of plants
and animals than a real labourer in the physical sense.
That his work is far more skilled and irreplaceable than that
of many of the operatives employed in the so-called skilled
engineering trades was shown during the War. Machine
tending could be performed after very little apprenticeship
by juvenile and unskilled labour, but only under stress of
the direst military necessity were the skilled farm-hands
conscripted into the ranks.
DISCOVERY, NATURAL ENERGY AND DILIGENCE-THE
THREE INGREDIENTS OF WEALTH.

Thus, when we deal with the real factors that underlie
the production of wealth-unclouded by questions of
property-law, the individual rights of ownership, and the
complications introduced by monetary systems--we can
sum them up as Discovery, Natural Energy and Human
Diligence. The first enters in the form of sudden and
more or less spasmodic contributions which, once made,
permanently alter the whole future course of history. But
the two last must be continuously and unremittingly
provided as long as time shall last, Under the term
Diligence, used in lieu of Labour, is to be included not
merely the services of artisans and labourers, but also

62

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

those of business men, employers of labour, managers and
skilled calculators in so far as they do contribute essentially
to the production of wealth and its delivery at the times
and places when and where it is required for use. In so
far as such "services" go to increase neither the quality
nor the quantity of the wealth produced, but merely its
sale price, they constitute no addition to the national
wealth whatever, for the gains of these individuals are at
the expense of the rest of the community. Though it still
seems traditional and customary to regard as the producer
the masters or employers of labour, and the wage-earners
as their hired servants, if not mere chattels of the speculative entrepreneur, in this book little distinction is called
for between the privates and officers of the economic army.
All grades of the whole organisation contributing services
by hand or brain essential to the production process, from
the manager to the labourer, are equally considered the
producers.
CONFUSIONS BETWEEN NATIONAL AND INDIVIDUAL
WEALTH.

It is difficult or impossible to get a physical means of
measuring wealth-as, for example, in the units of physical
energy and of human life-time expended in its productionwhich shall be capable of common application to all the
numerous varieties of wealth; but this difficulty must not
blind us to the palpable absurdities in conventional
economics introduced by always measuring wealth by
exchange-value or money price. This may easily result
in what could only be regarded as a national calamity
appearing to increase the national wealth, or what is in
every respect a national blessing appearing to reduce it.
Unnecessary middlemen and speculators may much increase
the prices of commodities without any addition to the
national wealth. Combines of producers and trusts for
limiting output and raising prices may reduce the national
wealth and increase its monetary value, apart altogether

THE BASIS OF NATIONAL ECONOMICS

63

from changes of the general price-level and the costs of
production. Such" services " as these, which are properly
means of acquiring wealth at the expense of the rest of the
community rather than producing it, are, of course, not
physically necessary ingredients of wealth at all.
THE ECONOMIC DILEMMA.

The question is dismissed somewhat superficially by

J. S. Mill, in his Principles of Political Economy. He draws
a distinction between the wealth of an individual and that
of a nation, but hardly makes it clear how much of what
is considered wealth in conventional economics is at one
and the same time a subtraction from as much as an
addition to the national wealth. Thus, in his Preliminary
Remarks, he raises the question whether, if the atmosphere
could be monopolised, there would not result an increase
in wealth, and says: "Though air is not wealth, mankind
are much richer for obtaining it gratis, since the time and
labour which would otherwise be required for supplying
the most pressing of all wants can be devoted to other
purposes." In the event of its being monopolised, he proceeds: "The possession of it, beyond his own wants,
would be, to its owner, wealth, and the general wealth of
mankind might at first sight appear to be increased by what
would be so great a calamity to them. The error would
lie in not considering that, however rich the possessor of
air might become at the expense of the rest of the community, all persons else would be the poorer by all that
they were compelled to pay for what they had before
obtained without payment."
One might anticipate from this that he would discuss
similarly the cases of rent as the effect of the natural
monopoly of land, and of interest and profit-apart from
and in excess of payment for the hire of necessary
plant and for necessary services rendered in a managerial
capacity and the like-but since in these cases the community have always been compelled to pay, the error, if
it is one, is apparently justified by tradition.

64

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

Again, mankind would also be much richer if it could
obtain its food and fuel, like its air, gratis, since the time
and labour required to supply these most pressing of all
wants could then be devoted to other occupations, possibly
to leisure to pursue values of little account in the market.
Under these circumstances there would be a reduction in
the wealth of mankind by what would be so great a boon
and a blessing to them. Simple contradictions of this
character may serve to show that in attempting to avoid
the difficulties of his subject by regarding it merely as a
science of market exchanges, the economist has effectually
impaled himself upon the horns of a very awkward dilemma.
It may justly be asked whether it is a science of wealth,
or the want of it, which leads to such curious inversions.
POLITICAL ECONOMY AND POLITIC ECONOMICS.

In these considerations we have the crux of the problem
why discoveries and inventions, which are beyond cavil
national gains, lead to profound evils in the social and
economic organism.
It is only in unsophisticated communities that production is carried on directly for consumption and use. In
modern societies the product is not produced for consumption or use, but for exchange or sale. Consumption
indeed is regarded as a necessary evil, and the accumulation
of wealth by individuals is the driving motive. But
individual wealth, unlike national wealth, may merely be
national debt, and indeed this is much easier and safer
to accumulate than real wealth.
Out of this exchange, not out of production per se,
claims to individual wealth come into being, and wealth,
which in an unsophisticated society must be the actual
ownership of existing goods, in modern societies is extended
to a generalised claim upon the totality of the community's
present and future wealth. Not only do such claims arise
from active positive participation in the production process.
Purely imaginary services such as the pretence of lending

THE BASIS OF NATIONAL ECONOMICS

65

money may be a legal claim to wealth. Also the participation may be negative rather than positive. The claims to
wealth of an individual may arise from not preventing
production, assisting it in the sense of refraining from
hindering it. But since no nation can possibly live whether
by imaginary loans, the interest on its debts, nor by refraining from hindering production, so a study which does not
at the outset free its conception of national wealth from
such confusion is in no proper sense political economy.
It may be politic economics for those who desire a quiet
life and to live on good terms with their neighbours, and
if political economy no longer means national economy,
it is time its name was changed to politic economics.
THE PARALYSING EFFECT OF OLD CONVENTIONS.

Never was there an age in history so dowered as ours
with all that could have sufficed for a noble and enduring
civilisation, whereas it is still to ancient civilisations that
we must go if we wish to find evidence of human effort
and imagination being squandered on a national scale on
something not strictly utilitarian in purpose. The most
gigantic powers await our commands to provide us with
all that we require, but we lead a harried, driven life,
concerned for the most part with the immediate necessity
of keeping the wolf from the door, and destroying our
trade rivals.
At least so far as the immediate present and future are
concerned, there is no conceivable requisite that cannot
be produced on the earth or dug out of it in accordance
with the world's needs. This is a conclusion that goes
right against our herd instincts derived from a pre-scientific
era and the present illusion of poverty carefully fostered
under the rule of the usurer. It cuts the Gordian knot of
the social, national and race perils which beset the future.
For there is no present political question, however insoluble
it may appear to the herd instincts of humanity, which is
not fundamentally altered by this discovery. Properly

66

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH .AND DEBT

understood and acted upon, the world would gain a
breathing space, in which more ca.lmly and scientifica.lly
to make the necessary provision and adjustment for the
future.
THE GROWTH OF POPULATION NO LONGER A
BUGBEAB..

This is not to say that. under every conceivable contingency, the scientific solution of the economic problems
of life will bring permanent peace and security to an everexpanding world population. But our ideas to-day of
crowded countries, with populations spilling over the brim,
and threatening the immediate future with race conflicts on a
gigantic scale, are really derived from conventional standa.rda
of the number of people any given country is able to
support. Of course, if the expansion of recent times goes
on in a geometrical progression unchecked, in time the
physical limitations of the planet must make themselves
felt. At present there is not more than one individual
to every ten or fifteen acres of habitable surface on the
average.
This country is estimated 1 to have about twice as
many people as it can economically feed according to peace
standards, and so has to import at least half the food
consumed. But ideas of emigration rema.in much what
they were when there were no fast steamships and luxurious
floating hotels. Even if the worst came to the worst and
the rest of the world boycotted us and refused to trade
with us, the task of transporting half a population is not
very formidable. However, there is no great likelihood
of the Increase of population continuing indefinitely. With
the increasing knowledge and practice of birth-control the
opposite is more likely. Although racial problems are
formidable, it must not be forgotten that, before any other
race can challenge the supremacy of the white races, it
must adopt science and come under influences the same
1

See p. 256.

THE BASIS OF NATIONAL ECONOMICS

67

as those now at work in the Western world, though it is
very unlikely to copy all our mistakes.
Again, people are apt to imagine that any great change
in the policy of a country is likely to inflict to-day as great
hardships upon the workers as were originally caused by
the introduction of machinery in the early part of last
century. To take an illustration, it might be supposed
that, if this country in the future decided to depend on
its own resources and less upon its foreign trade, agriculture
would boom and the engineering industries would be
depressed. This would probably not mean, nowadays,
that a vast collection of workers in the towns would be
forced back into agriculture and to do unskilled work
on the land. What would be much more likely to
happen would be that the engineering trades would
cater much more for the home farming industries than
at present. Agriculture would become more industrialised and, like transport, would probably cease to
use animal labour except on a comparatively small
scale. Indeed, the tendency in this direction is already
most marked.
In all departments of industry the general effect of the
scientific advance has been to make men more adaptable
and able to turn their hands to a greater variety of occupations than before. In new countries, where the conditions are less stereotyped, people think far less of a total
change of trade or occupation than they do at home. As
wealth production becomes more and more a finished
science, less and less are very special personal qualifications
required for its pursuit. The man who before found himself
indispensable, for example, by virtue of being able to judge
furnace temperatures accurately by eye, is replaced by the
even more accurate pyrometer. An inventor, once he has
been induced to disclose his invention, becomes an entirely
negligible quantity, though, as a business precaution, he
would be better chloroformed lest he should invent something taking the place of the first invention. From the
general administrative point of view, there would be no

68

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

great difficulty in changing from one kind of production
to another, even if it involves converting one type of worker
into another. The problem nowadays is more akin to
turning coachmen into motor-drivers, rather than chauffeurs
into born whips.

CHAPTER IV

THE FALLACIES OF ORTHODOX ECONOMISTS
WEALTH AND DEBT.
WEALTH is a positive physical quantity, but debt is a
negative quantity. It has no concrete existence, and is to
the physicist an imaginary quantity. If we deal with
numbers, then we may with great appropriateness give
them either sign; but in physics, which deals with real
quantities, we can only do so with caution. The positive
physical quantity, two pigs, is something anyone may see
with their own eyes. It is impossible to see minus two pigs.
The least number of pigs that can be physically dealt with
is zero. Plus two pigs at least must be taken for granted
before we can, even for reckoning, make use of the imaginary
quantity, minus two pigs. Though we may, with the
utmost mathematical purism, deduct two from one and
have left minus one, we cannot deduct two pigs from one
pig and have left minus one pig. Indeed, in pure mathematics, negative quantities were first recognised and justified
by the Hindu mathematicians by their analogy to debt.
The economist would probably deny that pigs were
necessarily wealth in his sense of the term, for example, if
they were running wild and unappropriated. Assuredly a
buyer is not going to give anything to a seller for pigs
which the seller has not got to sell, and the point seems a
meaningless quibble. If the pigs were running wild on a
private estate they would be wealth to the owner of the
estate, so that we reach the conclusion that it is all a
question of private ownership. What is wealth after it is
appropriated was not wealth before. So that in a eom-

70

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

munal as distinct from an individualistic society there
would be no wealth in the sense of the economist. This
may be a distinction between Wealth and Not-Wealth in
the mind of the economist, just as Mill stated, "The distinction between Capital and Not-Capital does not lie in
the kind of commodities, but in the mind of the capitalist,
in his will to employ them from one purpose rather than
another."
But there are other differences of more importance.
Pork, for example, has feeding value, which can be measured
in calories, irrespective of who owns it, in contradistinction
to a machine which has none; and this surely is not an
entirely negligible consideration in deciding such matters.
Wealth has proved a quantity too difficult and too
involved for analysis by the modern economist. The
earlier economists did, according to their lights, attempt
to deal with it; but the modern school have more and
more taken it and its origin for granted and confined
themselves to the study of debt, or, as we shall see, with
chrematistics rather than economics. Debts are subject
to the laws of mathematics rather than physics. Unlike
wealth, which is subject to the laws of thermodynamics,
debts do not rot with old age and are not consumed in the
process of living. On the contrary, they grow at so much
per cent per annum, by the well-known mathematical
laws of simple and compound interest. The former applies
when the interest is periodically paid, the latter when it
is not paid. For sufficient reason, the process of compound
interest is physically impossible, though the process of compound decrement is physically common enough. Because
the former leads with passage of time ever more and more
rapidly to infinity, which, like minus one, is not a physical
but a mathematical quantity, whereas the latter leads
always more slowly towards zero, which is, as we have
seen, the lower limit of physical quantities.
It is this underlying confusion between wealth and debt
which has made such a tragedy of the scientific era. It is
fundamentally ingrained in the Western mentality and,

THE FALLACIES OF ORTHODOX ECONOMISTS 71
could it be straightened out, a scientific civilisation might,
at long last, yet be put on the right road. The confusion
is obvious enough when once pointed out, and in these
days of positive knowledge concerning the nature of the
material world and the matter-of-fact and common-sense
habit of thought it engenders, the task should not present
any insuperable difficulty. Historians of the-let us hopehappier future in store for humanity will probably find it
difficult to believe that in a scientific age such an error
could have exercised the sway over the human mind that
it actually does in this the third decade of the twentieth
century.
THE ORIGINS OF THE CONFUSION.

The old Greek and Roman jurisprudence was, of course,
not concerned with the real nature of wealth, then completely beyond the power of mortals to understand, nor
even with its primary object and purpose in the maintenance of life, but with the rights of individuals owning
property-which included slaves and their labour-and the
duties of individuals owning it. Modern systems of law
as affecting property have not kept pace with our knowledge
of wealth and are still largely based on ancient codes.
They are concerned primarily with the legal titles to wealth,
whereby individuals in non-possession of wealth acquire it
as wanted through these titles. It is natural for the
ordinary man, to whom money or any similar title to
wealth is, normally, completely equivalent to real wealth,
to consider money as wealth. For the law, which is concerned with government, to remain merely a reflection of
earlier and more primitive ways of living is a serious offset
against the social value of scientific knowledge.
As for economists, they have made spasmodic efforts to
rid their systems of these confusions, it must be admitted
with some success, until the rapid developments in modern
finance and banking and the changes that have come over
the very nature of money in recent years brought back

72

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

again the demons they had partly exorcised in seven-fold
greater force.
The definition of wealth has always been the touchstone of clear thinking in economic matters, and after
centuries of effort that definition still eludes us. Aristotle
tried to cut the Gordian knot by defining wealth as all
things whose value can be measured in money, and the
Roman jurists, in their practical fashion, followed suit in
defining wealth as what can be bought and sold.
Money, however, is merely a claim to wealth, and to
define wealth as that which can be claimed by claims to
wealth, or can be measured by the numerical legal claims
to wealth called money, is merely like defining a fluid as
that which can fill and be measured by an empty hole,
capable of holding the fluid, called a fluid measure. Such
logic has always exerted, and will probably always exert,
a powerful attraction to the ruling and legal type of mind,
more concerned with the ownership of wealth than the
processes which bring it into existence and which it, in
turn, brings into existence. To the economist, on the
other hand, their fascination was fatal. It solved many
little difficulties and apparent inconsistencies regarding the
real nature of wealth entirely to ignore it, and to base it,
as the Roman jurists did, upon the principle of exchangeability as the sole criterion. That alone is wealth which
can be exchanged for money. Still it might have been
apparent that a weight, although it is measured by what
it will pull up, is nevertheless a pull down. The whole
idea of balancing one thing against another in order to
measure its quantity involves equating the quantity
measured against an equal and opposite quantity. Wealth
is the positive quantity to be measured and money as the
claim to wealth is a debt, a quantity of wealth owed to
but not owned by the owner of the money. But the ability
to measure the exchange-value of wealth by money was
deemed the one thing necessary to reduce "economics"
to a quantitative science fit to rank with the great mathematico-physical group of exact sciences. Unfortunately,

THE FALLACIES OF ORTHODOX ECONOMISTS 73
owing to the initial confusion of sign, it reduced it to the
utter futility everywhere apparent to-day, whereby Society
is administered not by and for those who create wealth
and health, but by and for those who create want, and
every scientific advance seems to be countered by a retrogression in the science of government.
It is difficult to believe that the ancients were really
such fools as they have been made to appear. Indeed,
xp~J.La, usually translated as " wealth," in the first instance
meant want or demand, and by derivation came to mean
anything wanted or demanded. If the ancients were used
to logic at all, and it is supposed to have been their strong
point, they must have known that although the thing
wanted may be the same as the thing possessed, the want
of a thing is the opposite of the possession of it. Chrematistics, the science of wants and demands and of how they
exchange one for another, is quite a distinct study, more
plainly termed commerce. But economics, in a national
sense, is concerned with wealth as what is produced by
human beings to maintain their lives. Again, contrast
Demosthenes and Bishop Berkeley. The one said, " Credit
is the greatest capital of all to the acquisition of wealth,"
and the other asks "whether power to command the
industry of others (i.e. Credit) be not real Wealth."
In the eighteenth century the French school of philosophers, known as the Physiocrats-" the original Economists "-did attempt to base economics upon physical
reality. They traced the origin of all wealth to the land,
and got as near it as the science of their time allowed.
But, unable to formulate the real exchange-value of wealth
in terms of life, they adopted the legal definition in terms
of money. Karl Marx, contrary to common belief, did
not attempt to show that the origin of wealth was human
labour, but rather that the exchange-value or money-price
of wealth was. Of wealth he was perfectly correct, so far
as it goes, in his statement, "We see, then, that labour
is not the only source of material wealth, of use-values
produced by labour. As William Petty puts it, 'Labour is

74

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

its father and the earth its mother.' "1 It was rather the
disciples of the prophet who forgot all about mother, until
their memories were jogged by the recalcitrance of the
Russian peasantry.
But the more orthodox of the followers of the Physiocrats, though at first they had some veneer of the natural
knowledge of the latte-r, soon lost all scientific interest in
wealth altogether. Like Adam Smith, they have been the
tutors and mentors of property owners rather than scientific
men. Their attention was diverted by the legal conventions under which the titles to the ownership of wealth are
acquired, which they had the hardihood to describe as
inexorable economic laws. After inglorious efforts to find
a definition for the supposed subject-matter of their studies,
they seem now to have given up the attempt. It is, of
course, logically impossible to define the hotch-potch of
wealth and debt, their various partial factors, ingredients,
and even legal titles to ownership, comprised under everything which can be bought and sold, from land, labour,
live-stock, fuel and other perishable commodities, houses
and permanent possessions, factories, tools and agents of
production, light, heat and power, to discoveries, inventions,
goodwill of businesses, personal skill and aptitudes, rents,
Stock Exchange securities, national debts, banknotes,
mortgages and credit. Wealth as a real quantity-and,
as such, subject to the laws of conservation-they failed
to disentangle.
OUT OF THE FRYING-PAN INTO THE FIRE.

Up to this point economics was a relatively simple
subject compared with what it has since become with the
development of finance. J. S. Mill, following Adam Smith,
could pour scorn upon the vulgar errors of the old Mercantile System, which regarded national wealth as synonymous with money and the coinage metals, thus: "The
universal belief of one age of mankind . . . becomes to a
subsequent age . . . too preposterous to be thought of as
1

Capital, Book I, cap. i, p. 10.

THE FALLACIES OF ORTHODOX ECONOMISTS

75

a serious. opm~n. . ., It looks like one of the crude
fancies of childhood, instantly corrected by a word from a
grown person."
But, heedless of the fact that, even in his day, money
was no .longer necessarily specie or made of any precious
metal, but might be, as now it mainly is, a mere paper
acknowledgment of the community's indebtedness to the
owner of" the token, he fell into an error greater than that
he ascribed to the Mercantile System in his own definition
of wealth.!
"Money, being the instrument of an important public
purpose, is rightly regarded as wealth, but everything else
which serves any human purpose and which Nature does
not afford gratuitously is wealth also. . . . Everything
therefore forms a part of wealth which has a power of
purchasing, for which anything useful or agreeable would
be given in exchange."
This is as complete a confusion between wealth and
debt as was ever made by the ordinary untrained mind,
and the error vitiates all economic reasoning to this day.
Exultingly H. D. MacLeod pounced upon it, and with
the utmost hardihood pushed it to its logical conclusion.s
He twits the earlier economists for hesitating to include
a merchant's Credit (or ability to run into debt) as wealth
merely for fear of being forced to admit that wealth can
be created out of nothing. This did not worry him. He
defines pure economics as the science which treats of
exchanges and nothing but exchanges. "A merchant's
Credit is purchasing power exactly as money." Therefore,
according to Aristotle and Mill, Credit is Wealth. In the
grip of this syllogism MacLeod warms to his subject, and
proceeds to demonstrate that wealth can be created out of
nothing. But before quoting from him a few words of
introduction and explanation may be helpful.
In the first place Maof.eod, as a barrister-at-law and
legal expert on the subject of credit, uses the term Debt
J. S. Mill, Principles of Political Economy, 1909 edition, p. 6.
a H. D. MacLeod, The Theory oJ Credit, Longmans, Green & Co., 1893.

1

76

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

in its legal significance, as an amount owed by, say, A to B,
and owing to B from A. In ordinary usage it is the debtor's
rather than the creditor's position that the term suggests.
To own a debt is to be owed it, so that people buy debts
as they buy wealth if they can make a profit out of the
business. To exercise or use one's credit is to run into
debt. To grant or extend credit is to own a debt.
In the second place, the confusion being examined
arises, so far as the wealth of individuals is in question,
from the fact that an individual, independently of whether
he has property and even if he has none whatever, may
possess credit. If his penurious condition is unknown, or
if people trust his business ability, he may be able to run
into debt. By using or spending his credit he may obtain
wealth, contracting at the same time an equivalent debt.
So that the zero of no-wealth is, in his case, not the point
from which the personal wealth of such a person must be
reckoned in contrasting him with a person of no wealth
and of no credit. We may count his credit, or unexercised
power of running into debt, as part of his personal wealth,
but to do so we must start to reckon his wealth from below
zero-from a negative quantity, namely the amount he
would owe if he had exercised all his credit and spent all
he owns and all he owes. In a similar way the height of
the ground, which is usually reckoned from sea-level, might,
for some special purpose or survey, be reckoned from the
floor of the ocean. But that would make it no easier to
reclaim a Zuyder Zee or to drain and people an uninhabitable swamp. Let us now quote a few extracts from
MacLeod's Theory of Credit:
"How is a Debt created 1 By the mere consent of
two minds. By the mere fiat of the Human Will. When
two persons have agreed to create a debt, whence does it
come 1 Is it extracted from the materials of the globe 1
No. It is a valuable product created out of Absolute
Nothing, and when it is extinguished it is a valuable product
decreated into Nothing by the mere fiat of the Human Will.
Hence we now see that there is a third source of Wealth

THE FALLACIES OF ORTHODOX ECONOMISTS

77

besides the Earth and the Human Mind, namely the
Human Will."
" Goods, Chattels, Commodities, WEALTH can be created
out of Absolute Nothing and DECREATED again into the
Absolute Nothing from whence they came, to the utter
confusion of all the materialistic philosophers from Kapila
to the present day and to the first school of Economists.
The superlative importance of these considerations will
appear when we come to exhibit the mechanism and practical effects of the great system of Banking." And of this
system OVER THIRTY YEARS AGO he was already able to say:
" At the present time Credit is the most gigantic species
of Property in this country, and the trade in Debts is
beyond all comparison the most colossal branch of commerce. The subject of Credit is one of the most extensive
and intricate branches of Mercantile Law. The merchants
who trade in Debts-namely BANKERs-are now the
Rulers and Regulators of Commerce; they almost control
the fortunes of States. As there are shops for dealing in
bread, in furniture, in clothes and every other species of
property, so there are shops-some of the most palatial
structures of modern times-for the express purpose of
dealing in Debts; and those shops are called BANKS.
" And as there are corn markets and fish markets, and
many other sorts of markets, so there is a market for buying
and selling Foreign Debts, which is called the Royal
Exchange. Thus Banks are nothing but Debt shops, and
the Royal Exchange is the great Debt Market of Europe."
He adds triumphantly that" there is not one who ever
had any more conception of the principles and mechanism
of the great system of Credit than a mole has of the constitution of Sirius."
The interest about all this is that MacLeod-an acknowledged authority on the theory of Banking and Credit-is
merely more candid than the economists in his treatment
of this question. He is quite correct in pushing the
definition of wealth as adopted by Mill and other economists
to its logical conclusion, and in proving that if wealth is

78

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

what can be bought and sold it can be created out of nothing
in defiance of the laws of physics. It is the economist's
definition of wealth that is at fault and which vitiates
the conclusion. If we reasoned similarly in physics, we
should probably discover that weights possessed the property
of levitation.
CREDIT.

It is thus of great importance to get as early as possible
some real conception of credit, which always, in times of
difficulty as at present, appears to the imagination of the
sanguine to be vested with almost magical powers. There
is this much to be said for these beliefs, that they have
some foundation in National Economics as distinct from
Individual Economics, in that-as we shall see when what
is termed the principle of Virtual Wealth is discussed-a
community can, and indeed must, act as if it possessed
more wealth than it does possess, by an amount equal
to the total purchasing power of its money, and need
pay no interest whatever on the debt! But our present
purpose is rather to avoid the national aspect of money,
in so far as is practicable.
Ownership of wealth is transferable with or without
the exchange of an immediate quid pro quo in wealth.
The possession of goods brings with it the power of lending
them to others, as well as of selling them or of consuming
them. Thus a merchant with a reputation for business
acumen can obtain wealth from the owners on account,
and this power of contracting a debt is purchasing power
as assuredly as money or wealth.
But it is not wealth in the sense of a part of the nation's
wealth. The exercise of his power of running into debt
temporarily changes the ownership of wealth and does not
affect its totality. Even if a merchant's credit is, whilst
still unexercised, regarded as a part of the merchant's
individual wealth, it is clear that we must start to reckon
his wealth not from the zero of no-wealth, but from a minus
quantity.

THE FALLACIES OF ORTHODOX ECONOMISTS

79

The creditor, or lender of the wealth, again may transfer
his right to repayment from the debtor to a third party
in exchange for wealth, in which case the transaction is
in no wise different from what it would be if the debtor
had obtained wealth on credit from the third party in the
first instance. But it enables the original creditor to act
as though, having given up ownership of his wealth, he still
had it, so long as he can find another willing to give up
temporarily his ownership of wealth on similar terms.
Money does no more and no less as a means of effecting
the transference of ownership of wealth without a quid pro
quo in wealth.
The distinction between money and credit, as purchasing
power, is that the use of the former does not leave the
user in debt, whilst the use of the latter does. In the
case of money the buyer does not have to pay again for
the wealth purchased, but the seller who receives the
money passes on the token, as a legal claim to wealth on
demand, indefinitely-that is, the claim circulates and is
not cancelled.
In the first case, a merchant using his personal credit
contracts a debt to an individual and gives him an IOU
or promise to repay, which is returned to him and destroyed
by him when the debt is repaid. In the second case, a
buyer, using moneY'as purchasing power, is not a borrower
contracting a debt, but a creditor being repaid in wealth
a debt due to him from the general community, in which
the money circulates as legal tender. The money, or
national IOU, passes to the possession of another member
of the community and confers on him a similar right of
repayment, and so on, indefinitely. Unless it is convertible
into gold coin and is converted into gold coin and is melted
into bullion, and in this form of wealth repays the debt
to the owner of the money, the national IOU is not
cancelled.
.All of this has nothing to do with the totally different
question whether a borrower uses the wealth more or less
advantageously than the original owner would have done.

80

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

The point-and it would be impossible to exaggerate its
importance-is that, if the process is followed through, it
will be found that all forms of purchasing power-other
than wealth given in exchange for wealth by barter, but
including money except when, as explained, it is actually
destroyed and converted into bullion-are not a part of
wealth, but merely devices for transferring ownership of
it, without an immediate quid pro quo in wealth, for the
right to a future repayment in wealth.
Usually the attempt is made to argue that there is
" behind" the debt some equivalent of wealth in the
possession of the debtor, just as there is in the case of gold
money that can be melted and demonetised.! Thus Trving
Fisher,2 speaking of bank credit, remarks: "When the
uninitiated first learn that the number of dollars which
note-holders and depositors have the right to draw out of
a bank exceeds the number of dollars in the bank, they
are apt to jump to the conclusion that there is nothing
behind the notes or deposit liabilities. Yet behind all
these obligations there is always, in the case of a solvent
bank, full value; if not actual dollars, at any rate dollars'
worth of property."
But this is merely to confer upon one piece of property
two owners at one and the same time. Clearly, if one
piece of property with two owners can be counted as two
pieces of property, then there is nothing at all remarkable
in MacLeod's discovery that wealth can be created out of
nothing and decreated into nothing by the mere fiat of the
human will. 3 But, as Ruskin has sagely remarked, "It
is the root and rule of all economy that what one person
has another cannot have."
1 In this illustration the gold of a coin is regarded as the property of
the King or nation issuing it until it is defaced and converted into bullion.
2 Purchasing Power of Money, 1922, p. 40.
3 MacLeod quotes the economist Say: "Those who consider Credit
to be Capital maintain that the same thing can be in two places at once,"
but dismisses him contemptuously with the remark, " Say never thought
out the fundamental principles of economics." This sort of thing seems
to pass for argument in economics-a proof of how far it deserves the
title of a science.

THE FALLACIES OF ORTHODOX ECONOMISTS

81

Credit means surely that the creditor gives up to the
borrower the use of the property lent. I t is true that in
granting bank credit the bank gives up nothing whatever,
but the community does, and the borrower receives it.
Mill, illogical and inconsistent as he was in his ill-fated
attempt to define wealth, was under no illusion as regards
the nature of credit. To him " the smallest consideration"
was sufficient to dispose of the view that the lender and
borrower could both have the use of the same property at
the same time. Writing in 1848, he could hardly be cited
as an authority on modern credit systems, but at least he
was quite modern in stating that, as purchasing power, in
their effects on prices, "Money and Credit are exactly on
a par." In his definition of wealth the context leaves no
doubt that he was defining national wealth in contradistinction to forms of individual wealth, neutralised by the
coexistence of an equal debt, as, for example, a mortgage,
which is not national wealth at alL Having defined wealth
as the power of purchasing, and having stated that money
and credit are on a par in this respect, clearly he was
inconsistent in regarding credit as, like a mortgage, merely
an addition to the possessions of one individual at the
expense of another.
But we need not accept MacLeod's credit absurdities.
It suffices to recast the argument in an unexceptionable
form. Everything is purchasing power which can be exchanged for wealth. Labour, money, credit, wealth can all
be exchanged for wealth. Therefore these things are all
purchasing power. Much as the syllogism may illuminate
the nature of purchasing power, it leaves that of wealth
still to be defined, with the chance that, after all, the laws
of conservation of matter and energy may be true. It is
curious that it should be left to a chemist to correct a
logician's logic.
Since money and credit are on a par as purchasing
power, how can money be rightly regarded as a part
of wealth if credit is not 1 The essence of money, as of
credit, is that the owner temporarily gives up possession of

82

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

the wealth to which he is entitled for money-a token,
like a merchant's IOU, but issued by the nation to signify
that the owner has given up the ownership of the wealth
and is entitled to repayment of it on demand. Thus money,
so far from being rightly regarded as a part of national
wealth, is rightly regarded as a part of the national debt,
the claims of individuals on the national wealth, exactly
like Consols or War Loan except that, being repayable
in wealth on demand in every market, it does not and
need not bear interest like a debt repayable, it at all, in
the future.
This is no new view, but has been expressed by people
as different as Ruskin and MacLeod. The former said:
" All money, properly so called, is an acknowledgment of
debt . . . a documentary promise ratified and guaranteed
by the nation to find a certain quantity of labour on
demand." 1 The latter said: 2 "The quantity of money
in a country is the quantity of Debt which there would
be if there were no money." "When there is no Debt
there can be no currency." Again he speaks of money as
a transferable debt against the general community.
But common sense surely is sufficient to convince the
matter-of-fact moderner that a certificate declaiming various
half-truths about George V being King of all Great Britain,
Defender of the Faith and Emperor of India, is not of value
to him on this account, but as evidence that he is entitled
to wealth in exchange for it, just as a railway ticket, of
even less artistic and informative worth in itself, is evidence
that the holder is entitled to take a railway journey.
Thus in counting money as national wealth rather than
national debt, economists have merely carried over to
modern times a habit of thought which arose through the
now almost entirely discarded practice of making the
certificates of indebtedness out of intrinsically valuable
metals. Paper and credit forms of money are absolutely
necessary and beneficial debt, on which no interest can be
demanded, but they are not wealth.
1

Unto thi8 Last, 1862.

I

Loc, cit.

THE FALLACIES OF ORTHODOX ECONOMISTS

83

The experts in this question have confused the public
rather than enlightened them, and fallen into the very
errors it was their special province to avoid. The view that
modern money is a part of the national wealth is as crude
to-day as the view that money and the precious metals were
the only real national wealth. The whirligig of time has
brought its revenges, and the universal belief of one age is
becoming to a subsequent age too preposterous to be thought
of as a serious opinion.
PROFESSOR CANNAN'S APER~U OF THE SCIENCE
OF WEALTH.

For a broad modern view of the position which orthodox
economics has reached we cannot do better than to turn
to one of the foremost teachers of the subject of the present
day. At least they have learned to walk delicately and
fight shy of definitions. It may be instructive to attempt
to give a condensation of the first chapter of Professor
E. Cannan's Wealth, "The Subject-Matter of Economics." 1
We learn that that is to be regarded as wealth which
it is usual and convenient to the science of wealth to regard
as wealth. At first economists entered into controversies
about national wealth, but the use of the term "political"
is not intended to confine the science to the wealth of
nations. Originally wealth meant wealth-the state of
being well, just as health means the state of being hale.
The controversies of the eighteenth century, and the
realisation that wealth consisted of other concrete things
than gold and silver, led to this meaning of wealth being
lost sight of in favour of that of material possessions. But
the economist deals with the increases and decreases of
quantities which involves the element of time, and searchers
for formal definitions overlooked this. The question,
"How much a year have you? " does not occur to a man
of the lowest class or to a child of any class, but rather,
"How much have you got 1" In cultivated society,
1 E.

Carman, TV ealth, 1924.

84

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

however, the conception of a periodical receipt has forced
its way in and overpowered the conception of a realised
amount. Economists without noticing the change came
to use "wealth" to mean a nation's annual produce. At
first the physiocrats did so with the eyes of the farmer,
and denied productivity to all labour not immediately
employed on the land. Adam Smith extended " productive
labour" to include permanent improvements, and Say
to "non-material products," so that, in spite of J. S. Mill,
who in this as in other matters tried to furbish up the
obsolete, the annual produce was regarded as including
services as well as commodities.
But to avoid the duplication in reckoning annual
produce, it was necessary to distinguish between the gross
produce and the net produce, the latter signifying those
commodities and services which actually reach the consumer, plus those added to existing stocks minus those
deducted from stocks. But there is no way really of
actually distinguishing between net produce and gross
produce, and the practice arose of substituting" income"
for "net produce." Marshall, in his great work, defined
economics "as how man gets his income and how he uses
it." Instead of starting from land and labour and tracing
the product, excluding double reckonings, we look at the
net results as shown by individuals' money incomes. But
money incomes do not include a farmer's consumption of
his own product or a wife's domestic duties, and even if
we can estimate the money value of these, the question
remains whether services of a mother to her child are
economic and are to be appraised at the same money value
as those of a wet-nurse. Then it is necessary to "go
behind" the money valuation and consider" real" income
as distinct from money income, owing to the complications
introduced by the variations of the purchasing power of
money. We find ourselves groping after a measure of the
good effects of commodities and services upon those who
get them. Hence the practice of economic teachers is
more and more directed from outward objects and par-

THE FALLACIES OF ORTHODOX ECONOMISTS

85

ticular actions to considering utility and satisfaction.
Democratic institutions now make it necessary to take into
account the pain and irksome toil involved in the creation
of utility and to consider also the interests of the working
classes upon whom most of this falls.
The older economists hardly thought of this, and the
idea of deliberately sacrificing positive utility to leisure
scarcely occurred to them. But most recent economists
would regard the economic condition of a people working
ten hours a day as superior to that of a people with the
same positive satisfactions working sixteen hours a day.
So that our subject-matter becomes utility minus disutility,
and wealth has reverted to its old meaning, wealth. But
this raises questions usually considered to be outside
economics. Though no satisfactory definition is possible,
yet, in practice, no great differences of opinion or usage
exist as to what is and what is not the subject-matter of
economics. Economic things can best be defined as
economic just as blue things can be best described as blue.
But, as a second-best description, we must fall back on
"having to do with the more material side of human
happiness. "
THE INTEREST-BEARING THEORY OF WEALTH.

Now all this as a review of the progress of the currents
and eddies of economic thought is extraordinarily able,
and, of course, to be properly appreciated the original
must be read. But it is also exceedingly clever and politic
in the modern sense of that much-abused term. We get to
perfection the quiet shelving of the really awkward questions of the unsophisticated who have to work to produce
wealth and who not only ask, "How much have you got 1 "
but somewhat more critically and pointedly than Marshall,
"How did you manage to get it 1" We have at least a
graceful, if unacknowledged and uncertain, echo of the
ideas of Ruskin, who expressed himself profoundly uninterested in the conclusions of economic science and more

86

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

concerned with the ultimate exchanges denoted by production and consumption, Le. life for wealth and wealth
for life. The change in the views of an individual growing
from childhood to riper years, and from poverty to
affluence, is shown to mirror perfectly the history of
economics so far. But the question arises, Is this really
political, Le. national, economics at all 1 Individuals grow
from youth to age and die, but nations must have an
economy that enables them to grow and live.
The better educated and leisured classes, indeed, now
usually regard the physical conception of wealth-Le. actual
goods, food, fuel and the like-as a crude and rude idea
that civilisation has grown out of. To them civilisation
means a much more advanced stage of society, and of
" progress" in which wealthy people derive leisure without
any effort in perpetuity as an interest payment on some
form of communal debt.
The debt may be a simple debt like Consols, War Loan,
etc., in which case they derive their livelihood without
assisting in production of wealth from the communal
revenue of wealth, as a payment of an annual sum in return
for not being repaid their principal.
Or it may be derived as a hire-payment for the use of
some agent or accessory essential to the production of
wealth which they lend to the community. So used are
they to living on the interest of debt that they do not
realise sufficiently the absurdity of everyone trying to do so.
Whereas when we deal with the Wealth of Nations
rather than of Individuals--that is, with Political Economy
in any real sense-there is no question that whether the
views of the manual worker, Le. of "Labour," are crude
and unsophisticated or not, they are in strict accord with
the facts of life and the physical laws which regulate the
production of wealth, as that which is necessary to maintain the life of the nation.
In proof of this it is only necessary to point out that
a perpetual motion machine is an impossibility. A man
with, say, £20,000 invested at 5 per cent is in perpetuaJ

THE FALLACIES OF ORTHODOX ECONOMISTS 87
enjoyment without work of an income of £1,000 a year,
and his heirs and successors after him. Consuming wealth
every day of their lives, they always have the same amount
as at first. This is not physics and it is not economics.
Like all alleged examples of perpetual motion, it is a trick.
It is, of course, perfectly possible for the individual or a
class of leisured individuals to live after this fashion, and
a very bitter commentary upon the age it is that the
triumphs of physical and mechanical science are so largely
stultified because of it.
The comfortable "income" and interest-bearing view
of wealth may provide individuals with a source of livelihood. The development of it may be called Individual
Economics, or the Economics of a Class, "the Art of
acquiring a Livelihood as professed by Tutors and Mentors
of Property Owners." But it should not be called Political
Economy, for a system of Political Economy that cannot
under any conceivable circumstances be applied to a nation
is a contradiction in terms. Neither is it a science, for one
of the main principles of the sciences which have enriched
-rather than impoverished-the world, and made it possible
for this country to support some five times as many people
as ever before in the history of man, is the denial of the
possibility of perpetual motion schemes of all kinds as a
vulgar delusion.
THE CONFLICT BETWEEN WEALTH AND LEISURE.

It, therefore, is of importance to commence studies
such as these with an examination into the physical criteria
of wealth. For wealth, unlike debt, rots if it is accumulated.
Increment is not a property of wealth but of the use of it
in production. The accumulation of wealth as agents of
production produces work, not leisure, for the more that
has been accumulated of factories, cultivated land, and
the like, the larger the number of man-hours required to
use them and to produce wealth by their use. Suppose, at
a certain stage of science and invention, that a nation's

88

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

accumulated productive capital required an average of
eight hours a day work-time on the part of the workers,
and it be doubled. If the land is not to go out of cultivation and the factories and plant to depreciate by disuse
and neglect, it must be worked. So that all must now work
sixteen hours in the day instead of eight, and,if it be
trebled, twenty-four hours. Beyond this it is physically
impossible to go. Any increased accumulation of the
agents of production beyond a definite limit is at the
expense of leisure, not an addition to it. The average
gentility of the community is decreased thereby, and if one
class succeed in becoming perfectly genteel-under no
necessity for the rest of their lives to produce anything
at all of what they consume-it is perfectly clear that the
gentility of the rest must be reduced to a degree greater
than that of the increase of accumulated capital. So much,
then, for the "income" view of wealth as the interest on
communal debt, and its fundamental conflict with the
wealth view.
SOME OTHER VIEWS.

It would be idle to deny that this confusion between
wealth and debt is to be found everywhere in economic
writing at the present time, and no better example could
be cited than the works of Mr. J. M. Keynes. As one of
the most original and brilliant of contemporary writers he
is, on that account, the more easy to convict. The majority
are of a more nebulous school, pushing caution to the point
of fatuity. Mr. Keynes, however, is giving signs of a rapid
awakening. Thus, in his celebrated Economic Consequences
of the Peace, he seriously seemed to think that the law of
compound interest is the law of increment of wealth rather
than of debt, and in pronouncing judgment upon the past
century's passion for accumulating wealth, which he
likened to a cake, he said:
"In writing thus, I do not necessarily disparage the
practices of that generation. In the unconscious recesses
of its being Society knew what it was about.. The cake

THE FALLACIES OF ORTHODOX ECONOMISTS 89
was really very small in proportion to the appetites of
consumption, and no one, if it were shared all round, would
be much the better off by the cutting of it. Society was
working not for the small pleasures of to-day, but for the
future security and improvement of the race-in fact, for
, progress.' If only the cake were not cut, but was allowed
to grow in the geometrical proportion predicted by Malthus
of population, but not less true of compound interest,
perhaps a day might come when there would at last be
enough to go round, and when posterity could enter into
the enjoyment of our labours. In that day over-work,
over-crowding and under-feeding would come to an end,
and men, secure of the comforts and necessities of the body,
could proceed to the nobler exercise of their faculties. One
geometrical ratio might cancel another, and the nineteenth
century was able to forget the fertility of the species in a
contemplation of the dizzy virtues of compound interest."
In the first paragraph Mr. Keynes is doubtless speaking
of an accumulation, in a geometrical progression with the
time, of real agents of production which, even if Society
had the appetite of an ostrich, it could not consume. The
accumulation is supposed to continue until there is enough
to go round. But then-hey presto I-we switch over to
debt and the interest accruing to those who own this
wealth by loaning it to those who do not. The security
and leisure is not a consequence of the accumulation, but
of the distribution, whereby those who work the accumulation productively pay a share of the produce to those
who do not. So that as a result of this confusion between
wealth and debt we are invited to contemplate a millennium
where people live on the interest of their mutual indebtedness.
The passage is also remarkable in revealing the role in
which the philosophical economist apparently regards himself in relation to the world, not as a scientific man
examining cause and effect and obtaining by correct knowledge and theoretical reasoning a grip of the way the
economic system works, but as the patient historical and
statistical student and recorder of its mysteries, gravely

90

WEALTH; VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

attributing the key to the overriding omniscience of the
human herd instinct. Possibly also the herd of Gadarene
swine, in the unconscious recesses of its being, knew what
it was about. Or is it as Mr. W. Trotter has said in his
Herd Instincts in Peace and War: "The survival of the
wagoner on the foot-plate of an express engine has made
the modern history of nations a series of breathless adventures and hair-breadth escapes"? So that at the end of
the second decade of the twentieth century the chariot
of the nation, which by the understanding of the laws of
thermodynamics and the inventions of science has been
harnessed to the sun, is, in the mind of the wagoners,
responding to the whip and spur of usury and the magnificent
conjuring tricks of the human will.
However, in the case of Mr. Kcynes, there are signs of
rapid advance, for in his latest work, Tract on lIf onetary
Reform, he is becoming strangely inconsistent. Thus on
one page he speaks of the savings of the nineteenth century,
accumulating at compound interest, having made possible
the material triumphs we now all take (so very much) for
granted, and three pages farther on he is expounding the
necessity of debasing the currency to assist the new men
and emancipate them from the dead hand and to arm
enterprise against accumulation. On one .page he is demonstrating the necessity for the nation to' save £M250 1 per
annum to keep up our standards of living from depreciation,
and on the other he is arguing for a Capital Levy as the
rational and deliberate method of adjustment in an individualistic society which depends for its existence upon
moderation because the powers of uninterrupted usury are
too great.
Mr. Stephen Leacock is a professional humorist as well
as a professional economist, and the reader must judge
in which capacity he wrote these words:
" Our studies consist only in the long-drawn proof of
the futility of the search after knowledge effected by
exposing the errors of the past, Philosophy is the science
1

£M signifies throughout £1,000,000.

THE FALLACIES OF ORTHODOX ECONOMISTS 91
which proves that we can know nothing of the soul;
Medicine is the science which tells us that we know nothing
of the body; Political Economy is that which teaches us
that we know nothing of the laws of wealth; and Theology
is the critical history of those errors from which we deduce
our ignorance of God.
" When I sit and warm my hands, as best I may, at the
little heap of embers that is now Political Economy, I
cannot but contrast its dying glow with the vainglorious
and triumphant science that once it was."
The natural philosopher is tempted to reply with the
paradox of Poincare :
"You wish me to tell you all about these complex
phenomena. If by ill-luck I happened to know the laws
which govern them I should be helpless. I should be lost
in endless calculations and could never supply you with
an answer to your questions. Fortunately for both of us,
I am completely ignorant about the matter. I can therefore supply you with an answer at once. This may seem
odd; but there is something odder still, namely that my
answer will be right. "
Poincare was speaking about the directions of the
velocities and magnitudes of the energy possessed by the
individual molecules making up the community of a gaseach individual in ceaseless collision with others millions
of times a second, at each of which the distribution of
velocities and energies changes-in contrast with the
simplicity of the problem as affecting the energy of the
gas as a whole and the laws it obeys under every possible
change of the conditions. So, in economics, if we first try
to follow the changes in distribution of wealth produced
by circulating bits of paper or gold about or depositing
them in banks we shall be helpless, lost in endless calculations, and never able to supply an answer to the simplest
questions affecting the welfare of the community as a
whole. But when we consider the latter question first,
and study the physical laws regulating the production of
wealth rather than its acquisition and distribution, though

92

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

we may not immediately be able to supply the answer to
all the unsolved problems of national economics, some we
can answer almost at once. It is odd, but in so far as the
problems involve questions of physical reality we may rest
assured that the answer will be right.
So in perfectly general and uncompromising form we
get the answer to the question whether it is possible to
consume wealth and still have it, and put by some to
" accumulate" at compound interest, and whether nineteenth-century Society, in the unconscious recesses of its
being, really did know what it was about. It is rather our
business to put the finger of science upon the precise
mistakes of the past.

CHAPTER V
UNORTHODOX AND POPULAR VIEWS
THE DENIAL OF THE EXISTENCE OF AnSOI.UTE WEALTH.
ECONOMISTS usually deny the existence of absolute wealth.
MacLeod, merely more outspoken than the rest, says:
"There is no such thing as Absolute Wealth, nothing
which in its own nature and in all circumstances and in all
places and in all times is Wealth. It is necessary that someone not its owner should desire and demand it and be willing
to give something for it." He thus entirely ignores the
primary object of owning and acquiring wealth, namely
consumption or use.
He cites ancient authority for the view, and quotes the
unknown Greek writer of Eryxias, who put into the mouth
of Socrates this imitation gem of ancient wisdom: "If
anyone could live without meat and drink they would not
be wealth to him because he did not want them." If
matter did not fall it would not have weight.
But all economists stipulate want or demand as essential to wealth in their sense of valuable or desirable things,
though Sidgwick 1 has pointed out that if wealth is defined
as possessing value, it would be more logical first to define
value. Bluntly, the position they take up is that there
can be no food without hunger, no drink without thirst.
Such purely subjective considerations are, of course, at the
root of commerce, whether between individuals or nations,
but they are utterly at variance with national economics as
concerned with the more material side of human happiness.
They are merely a vicious survival of pre-scientific philo1 l"rinciplu QJ Political EC01lOffl'¥. 188:1.

94

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

sophy, which denied the existence, apart from perception,
even of the physical world-views peculiarly out of place
in economic matters, unless they be regarded as the subject
of religious faith rather than of common sense.
In effect, human wants and desires, changing from
instant to instant with every change of appetite, taste,
fashion and circumstance, are constituted the measure of
wealth, so that a greater and more urgent want increases
it, whilst abundance and satiety diminish it.
We are, in
fact, using a variable standard of measure and imposing
upon the quantity measured the variations of the standard.
It is a relief to turn to another type of economist.
RUSKIN.

Ruskin, in solitary and picturesque protest against the
hallucinations of his age, pleaded in vain for an economics
founded upon life. Hostile in spirit to science, or rather
to the chrematistic pursuit of science which desecrated the
countryside and doomed the workers to bestial conditions
of existence, and a great champion of the cause of the
higher spiritual and resthetic values against the onrush
of a sordid materialism, yet it is to materialistic science
we must turn if we require the theory and justification of
his philosophy.
But even Ruskin laboured heavily under the error he
was trying to extirpate. Wealth to him still was inseparably connected with the lower passions and avarices of the
struggle for existence, and he did not realise that the
materialistic sciences had already severed the bond. He
railed at beneficent and humane applications of science
no less than at the unbridled pursuit of it for money-at
railways and the harnessing of water-power as at the reckless belching out of deleterious smoke and fumes which
produce a Glasgow fog or the desolation of a Black Country.
Perhaps, even yet, science cannot wholly prevent some
sacrifice of natural beauties and even of civic amenities.
But the grosser forms of its abuse which characterised the

UNORTHODOX AND POPULAR VIEWS

95

industrial revolution were due not to science, but to the
historical students of the world's systems of commerce
scientifically pronouncing that the lures of private interest
and unlicensed gain were safe and satisfactory substitutes
for the more traditional forms and principles of government.
It was typical of the nineteenth century that the grosser
forms of atmospheric pollution were soon abolished by the
alkali and factory inspectors educating the manufacturers
into uses of their deleterious waste-products more profitable
than the devastation of the countryside. Thus the old
Le Blanc alkali process at first belched out into the air
with absolute recklessness hydrochloric acid gas. Prevented, the manufacturers found in it a most valuable
by-product, but for which they could not have survived
so long the competition of the newer and more elegant
ammonia-soda process. The smoke problem, industrially,
is in much the same category, and few are the industries
where it would not be more profitable to consume smoke
than to send it out to pollute the air. But in cities as
important a source of this crying evil is the open domestic
hearth, and, as yet, no satisfactory complete solution of the
technical problem has been found. Still, there is no valid
reason why scientific industries should not be carried on
with full regard to the amenities of life. The small minority
of offensive industries could, at the worst, be confined to
definite localities where the nuisance is the minimum.
A much more real opposition between the claims of
science and natural beauty and national amenities arises
in the use of water-power. Waterfalls and foaming cataracts rank among the finest of Nature's works, but it must
be confessed, from the scientific standpoint, that they
represent a prodigal waste of live energy which humanity
at present can ill afford. Ruskin was especially hostile to
the harnessing of water-power. Yet had he realised the
essential identity of the vitalising stream with that which
courses through what he termed the purple veins of
wealth-the full-breathed, bright-eyed and happy human
creatures he esteemed above gold-possibly (who knows f)

96

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH

AND

DEBT

he himself might have been the first to open wider the
sluices and to drain even a Niagara if thereby he could
enrich human life.
The peculiar world-position of this country in the
nineteenth century as the first to develop the use of power
and its temporary circumstances, in that it found it cheaper
to export its products in exchange, in some small part, for
the bulk of its food-though probably far more went in
exchange for paper claims to future wealth-no doubt were
the cause of the eclipse of political economy and the rise of
what Ruskin termed mercantile economy, or chrematistics.
He alone in the nineteenth century seems to have had any
appreciation of the distinction. His patriarchal attitude
towards his less fortunate fellows and his oracular religiosity
are nauseating to many in these days, sick to death alike
of the charity of the Christian and the benevolence of the
Jew, and needing only permission to get on with the nation's
household management without their interference; but in
seeing the reality beneath the appearance Ruskin was a
true scientist no less than the true artist.
THE ECONOMICS OF LIFE AS THE PRODUCT OF THE
CONSUMPTION OF WEALTH.

In his Unto this Last, published first in 1862, Ruskin
showed a profound insight into the nature of what passes
for wealth, if not for that of wealth itself. His theory of
the relativity of individual riches-" The art of making
yourself rich, in the ordinary mercantile economist's sense,
is therefore equally and necessarily the art of keeping your
neighbour poor "-is of fundamental importance to the
consideration of the obstacles which prevent reform. His
dicta that there is no wealth but life, and that the wealth
of a nation is to be estimated by what it consumes, are less
unorthodox than of yore, if only because of the sheer
impossibility of finding any conceivable use for the wealth
science provides so prodigally, except by consuming it,
if not for the enrichment, then for the destruction of life.

UNORTHODOX AND POPULAR VIEWS

97

Consumption absolute-Le. not for future production-is, as
he put it, the end, crown and perfection of production, not
something to be reduced to the minimum as an unavoidable
waste, as it appears in chrematistics. Even the very word
" economy" properly should mean the efficient and abundant provision of the necessaries of life, not the parsimonious
consumption of them. It is significant that only with the
almost unbounded enrichment of the material life by
scientific discovery the word should have gained this
sinister meaning.
Ruskin's description of the chrematist's paradise"capital producing nothing but capital, bulb issuing in
bulb, never in tulip, seed issuing in seed, never in bread " is scarcely any longer ahead of the times. His picture of
the political economy of Europe, devoted wholly to the
multiplication of bulbs, and unable to conceive such a
thing as a tulip-" Nay, boiled bulbs they might have beenglass bulbs-Prince Rupert's drops, consummated in powder
(well if it were glass-powder and not gunpowder) "-for any
end or meaning in the accumulation, received its vindication
on the stricken fields of Flanders. The next age may even
erect a memorial to Ruskin there, bearing his words. But
there are no stricken fields in America, as yet, to mark the
end and meaning of capital accumulation, and it remains
to be seen whether America is going to keep alive in the
future the discredited political economy of Europe, so that
once again it may work itself out to its inevitable end in
the New World.
The century that has come and gone has seen a steady
alteration in the significance of the word "wealth" from its
original meaning, wealth, as the requisites that enable and
empower life, to debt, the right of the creditor to demand
wealth and the duty of the debtor to supply it. Adam Smith
some hundred and fifty years ago pictured a rude state of
society prior to the extension of commerce and the improvement of manufactures, where the only use of a large revenue
was in maintaining as many people as it can maintain. "A
hospitality in which there is no luxury, and a liberality in

98

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

which there is no ostentation, occasion, in this situation of
things, the principal expenses of the rich and great." The
times to-day partake of the same character with regard to
the end of the eighteenth century to which his system of
economics referred, as they in turn did to the earlier condition he depicted. He bewailed " the progress of the enormous debts which at present oppress, and will in the long
run probably ruin, all the great nations of Europe," when
in this country the National Debt amounted to £MlaO
(1775), at the commencement of a new war which involved
an additional debt of more than £MI00. He noted that
" when national debts have been accumulated to a certain
degree there is scarce a single instance of their having been
fairly and completely paid." At that time the whole debt
was less than half the annual interest upon it to-day. The
world has experienced different ways of distributing its
revenue, but, in the ultimate analysis, the principle that the
only use for a large or a small revenue is the maintenance
of as many people as it will maintain is, and always has
been, as true, in terms of wealth, as it was in the most
primitive society.
The opening words of Marx's Capital, quoted from an
earlier work published in 1859, gives' his idea of wealth:
"The wealth of those societies in which the capitalistic
mode of production prevails presents itself as an immense
accumulation of commodities, its unit being the single
commodity." But Ruskin in the work quoted (1862) was
conscious of the totally different meaning which the word
" wealth" implied in the mind of the owner of property:
"Mercantile economy signifies the accumulation, in the
hands of individuals, of legal or moral claim upon, or power
over, the labour of others; every such claim implying
precisely as much poverty or debt on one side as it implies riches or right on the other."
In the early stages of the War the then Chancellor of
the Exchequer deprecated a certain financial policy on the
ground that thereby one-half of the capital wealth of the
country would be destroyed. Even in war you could not

UNORTHODOX AND POPULAR VIEWS

99

so easily destroy an immense accumulation of commodities!
Since then we have learned to regard even our real individual wealth as our annual revenue, and, if it is unearned,
to divide it by the current rate of interest, whatever that
may be, to arrive at its capital value.! We have yet to
see a Chancellor of the Exchequer doubling the capital
wealth of the country by resuming the pre-war rate of
interest on Government securities.
But the idea of wealth, apart from a revenue, has almost
lapsed even in individual economics. The immense accumulations of commodities implied by the existence of £M7,OOO
of legal claims to wealth as War Loan we saw destroyed
as fast as they were produced. But, by the inexorable
laws of thermodynamics, if not of economics, the immense
accumulations of the nineteenth century in railways, canals,
factories and slum cities, even if they did not get out of
date, are all on the same broad highway to destruction.
But debts neither get out of date nor wear out; they grow.
RUSKIN'S FAILURE TO GRASP THE NATURE OF
ABSOLUTE WEALTH.

In Unto this Last the Preface states: "The real gist
of these papers, their central meaning and aim, is to give,
as I believe for the first time in plain English-it has often
been incidentally given in good Greek by Plato and Xenophon, and good Latin by Cicero and Horace-a logical
definition of WEALTH: such definition being absolutely
needed for the basis of economical science. . . ." It may
be questioned whether either he or the ancients succeeded.
It is not unfair to conclude that Ruskin never got beyond
seeing that what passes for wealth in mercantile economy,
or jurisprudence, is also debt. On his own analogy, the
two were commingled like the north and south poles of
a magnet. He never seems quite to have divorced himself
1 Thus, when the rate of interest on Government securities was 3 per
cent [0'03], an income of £100 a year was derived from Consols worth
£100 -;- 0·03 = £3,3331.
When it rose to 5 per cent, the same Consols
would only fetch £100 -;- 0·05 = £2,000 in the market.

100 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
from a patriarchal attitude of mind, still prevalent but
weakening to-day, where the use of a revenue is to maintain
a retinue of happy and thankful dependents rather than
a free people. The physical reality of wealth, apart altogether from legal claims, escaped his analysis. He copies
Bishop Berkeley in the aphorism, "The essence of wealth
consists of power over the lives and labours of others"-a
definition of debt, but not of wealth. Whereas the essence
of wealth is not power over men, but power over Nature.
Even the essence of ownership of wealth is not power over
men, but rather over the fruits of their past diligence in
embodying the energy of Nature or replacing it usefully by
things into the making of which work has gone. Power
over men is the essence of debt, not of wealth. The not
owning and not possessing wealth owed to one individual
by another or by the community gives that individual
power over the other or the community until the debt is paid.
When paid, the not-owner becomes the owner. The wealth
he now possesses, but the power over men he loses. We
had kings of nations and captains of industry. The captains
and the kings depart, and leave us emperors of debt, rulers
and regulators of commerce, controllers of the fortunes of
States, for whom the one world is too small, and the whole
universe capable of assuaging only for a moment an infinite
thirst.
Before leaving Ruskin, it is interesting to recall an incidental remark in a footnote of the book cited, part of which
has already been quoted, which shows how far ahead and
yet how far behind he was of his own times: "All money,
properly so called, is an acknowledgment of debt. . . . The
final and best definition of money is that it is a documentary
promise ratified and guaranteed by the nation to find a
certain quantity of labour on demand. A man's labour
for a day is a better standard of value than a measure of
any produce, because no produce ever maintains a consistent rate of productibility." That all money, properly
so called-all genuine money-is an acknowledgment of
debt, a documentary promise of the nation to provide a

UNORTHODOX AND POPULAR VIEWS

101

certain quantity on demand, is no longer the view of a few
students, but since the war-which saw money multiplied
without gold-mines, as science multiplies productibilityhas become evident to all.
But what is the quantity promised? Is "a man's
labour for a day" a consistent measure of productibilityin one age tilling the ground from whence he came, in
another diligently watching a harnessed Niagara or steam
turbine energise a community? Do not such views, like
those of the Marxist, that the origin of wealth is human
labour, sign, seal and deliver Labour over to bondage,
whereby the machine competes with him and multiplies
the debts of the community rather than its wealth or health?
This seems to be the pivot upon which the whole future
course of history will turn, and decide whether science if!
yet to prove itself a blessing or a curse. In brief, is the
increment in productivity due to science to be available
for the redemption or merely for the multiplication of
debt? We shall have to revert again to this question.
Both Ruskin, who regarded human labour as a consistent measure of productibility, and Marx, who held that
the value of commodities, produced for exchange, is determined by the labour-time socially necessary for their production, did not take into account sufficiently the effects
of science in replacing animate by inanimate power. Both
seem to have had a suspicion that science was dealing with
things that would prove upsetting to their philosophy.
Indeed, nowhere in Capital probably does Marx 80 excel
himself in vituperation as in his description of the founder
of thermodynamics as "an American humbug, the baronised Yankee, Benjamin Thompson (alias Count Rumford)
. . ." Curiously enough, this is only for his daring to
recommend, in his Essays, Political, Economical and Philosophical, "receipts of all kinds for replacing by some
succedaneum the ordinary dear food of the labourer," and
not his more famous recipe for replacing the labourer
himself. For out of the work of this" American humbug"
truly arose the modern 10,000 horse-power machine, each

102 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
horse-power equal to that of 10 men, working not 8 or
10, but 24 hours in the day, and each machine tirelessly
replacing the physical labour of a community of 30,000
labourers. How cheap things would have become if Marx
had been right! Nor is it of much avail for his present-day
followers to retort that the machine is the product of human
labour as well as the coal that energises it. We may grant
the machine, if they will grant the science and the invention,
and, on the same terms, we may grant the coal in so far as
the mining of it is concerned. But the power is neither
in the machine nor in the mining; its origin is more
ancient. The hated capitalist was in this case the tree
patiently storing up the energy of the sunshine in the
carboniferous era, millions of years before there was such
a thing as a man.
THE PHYSICAL LAWS OF CONSERVATION CAN BE APPLIED
TO THE CONCEPTION' OF WEALTH.

As Ruskin said, a logical definition of wealth is absolutely
needed for the basis of economics if it is to be a science.
The doctrine of energy, and the laws of thermodynamics
do allow of this. In particular the eminently practical
common sense underlying the second law is perfectly
applicable. No exact science can progress until it has
established within its province laws of conservation, and
decided what are the real quantities which do not change
with progress of time and circumstance. The law of conservation applies to the conception of energy itself, but
the second law introduces what is, in practice, far more important, a sense of direction, by distinguishing between
useful or available and useless or unavailable categories of
energy. Wealth, as we shall more nearly examine in the
next chapter, is essentially the product of useful or available energy. For every plus there is a minus, but for
every minus there is not a plus. For every appearance
or production of wealth there is a disa ppearance of
available energy, but for every disappearance of available

UNORTHODOX AND POPULAR VIEWS

103

energy there is by no means a production of wealth ;
rather, the opportunity to so utilise it passes the same,
whether utilised or not.
It might be thought that the idea of conservation,
whilst useful and necessary to the original formulation of
the laws of energy, was, nevertheless, of the nature of a
scaffolding that might be abandoned when the building
was complete. This point of view is often urged with
regard to potential energy. In every beat of a pendulum
there is a conversion from kinetic into potential energy,
and it is sometimes said that the conception of potential
energy is a mere means of saving the face of the law of
conservation. However, there is something physical and
real to show for the disappearance of the kinetic energy of
the full swing in the height the bob is raised against gravity,
and the more correct view is that the term potential energy
cloaks an ignorance as to the nature of the action at work
-in this case gravitation-rather than the creation of an
imaginary existence.
This is, as it happens, peculiarly demonstrable with
regard to the continued existence of energy after it has
passed into the useless form, as heat of temperature uniform
with the surroundings. To the naked eye, we have reached
a limit to the progress of changes, and all appears at rest.
But under the microscope there is no such thing as rest.
Every particle suspended in a fluid, if small enough, is
found to be animated with the lively Brownian movement,
and the more minute it is the more intense its perennial
agitation. The energy which before moved masses is there
in undiminished amount, but it is agitating the individual
molecules of matter, and the microscopic particles floating
in a fluid serve as indicators of the perennial bombardment
to which they are subjected. For larger particles these
sufficiently nearly cancel out, and such remain at apparent
rest, but below a certain size inequalities of the bombardment in different directions make themselves immediately
felt, the light and responsive particles being driven first
this way and then that, and never for an instant remaining

104 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
at rest. Energy is eternal, but useful energy as we know
it so far is an eternal flow in one direction.
It may seem a far cry from such topics to economics,
but until the latter can be based upon the principles of
conservation of the materialistic sciences, and every conjuring trick exposed, it cannot be said to have any proper
base at all. Economics deals not with energy, but entirely
with the flow of useful and available energy and its
transformations into useless forms, and physical wealth
as a product of the control and direction of this flow.
Physical science joins here with the common sense of
humanity that wealth can never be made with a wave of
the wand.
THE CONFUSED ASPIRATION OF MODERN COMMUNITIES.

Before trying to solve the problem of the nature of
wealth, let us consider a few of the more startling consequences of mistaking wealth and debt, which have become
apparent in the present century. Doubtless so fundamental a change in the manner of living of the greater part
of the habitable globe could not come about without grave
dislocation, but the naive and superficial arguments by
which a whole world has been madly set chasing its own
shadow are difficult seriously to examine. First and
foremost we have the deep intuitive instincts of humanity.
If we refer to the chart at the end of the second chapter
we shall see that it attempts to contrast the manner in
which men derive energy, intuitively and by the use of
the reason. The main course of natural intuitive evolution
up to man, through the animal and vegetable kingdom,
has been parasitic as regards the wherewithal of life. Men
initially rose out of animal-like conditions of existence only
by preying upon one another, as we still prey upon the
animal and vegetable kingdom for our internal energy.
But originally this dependence concerned the energy
required for all external labour as well that required
for metabolism. With growing intellectual achievement,

UNORTHODOX AND POPULAR VIEWS

105

emancipation from this dependence, so far as external
labour is concerned, has increasingly come about, and in
course of time may not inconceivably be extended even
to metabolism. Possibly even vegetarianism may one
day become a relic of barbarism.
Prior to the scientific era, all forms of government
naturally reflected this physical dependence, and there
always has been a relatively small and luxurious class
living upon the fruits of the labours of the many, though
the services, real or nominal, by which they justified their
dominance have changed with every change of conditions.
The Grecian and Roman civilisations were based upon
human slavery as an indispensable condition. The Jews
were busy resisting it from without, but this did not prevent
them from developing it within, whilst among the Mahommedans it still survives. Under Christianity, except for a
brief term in America, slavery disappeared, but its place
was taken in various ages by some form of economic or
feudal servitude, which has always been sedulously inculeated, and virtually, if not openly, defended as necessary
for the preservation of culture and leisure to pursue the
higher values. Under science, with so much of the heavy
burden of life removed from the backs of men and draughtcattle and placed on broader shoulders, dependence upon
the animal and vegetable kingdom for internal supplies
of energy persists, but dependence upon life for external
labour increasingly disappears. Perhaps, so far, only a
single step has been taken on the road to economic freedom,
but the tragedy is that even this step humanity frustrates.
We have seen how aloof the educated classes have been,
in this country especially, to the great revolutionary march
of science. A democracy, on the other hand, is too prone
to "put its wish-bone where its backbone ought to be."
The result has been an interpretation of the social conditions
of the time in terms of an inherited philosophy of class
servitude and a mad democratic uprush into the possessing
classes without changing by one iota its essentially parasitic
character.

106 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
Because formerly ownership of land-which, with the
sunshine that falls on it, provides a revenue of wealth-secured, in the form of rent, a share in the annual harvest
without labour or service, upon which a cultured and
leisured class could permanently establish itself, the age
seems to have conceived the preposterous notion that
money, which can buy land, must therefore itself have the
same revenue-producing power. It is easy to understand
the physics of seed-time and harvest, and, in general, the
origin of the increment whether of a corn-field, chicken-run
or a piggery. Plants or animals are sedulously collecting
solar energy, and, wonderful as the process is biologically,
there is no physical mystery about the appearance of ham
and eggs and toast on the breakfast-table. Granted, first,
land and sunshine in the ownership or possession of one
set of people, and, secondly, human industry furnished by
another set of people, the means of support of the gentleman, if not visible, are not very well concealed. From
the contemplation of this mode of gentle livelihood, honoured by tradition and history, let us turn somewhat
abruptly to the modern passport to gentility, the ownership
of, say, £20,000, a ball of gold some 9 inches in diameter.
As a possession it obeys the laws of conservation of matter
and energy. As money in its original sense, something to
be exchanged for wealth, it possesses no powers of selfreproduction. As a hoard or store used to buy goods it
would diminish in quantity, like soap when you wash with
it. But lent to someone else, and buried out of sight in the
vaults of some bank, like a seed in the earth or a fowl
laying eggs, it reproduces its kind. If the rate is 5 per cent
per annum, it becomes capable of supporting in gentility
and perpetual motion a whole family and their heirs and
successors after them on £ 1,000 a year. It may buy a farm
or some other source of revenue, and the labour of the
farmer and his labourers, out of the increment of which
they and our family together may be supported for ever
after. It rises superior to the laws of physics and now
energises even an entirely idle owner.

UNORTHODOX AND POPULAR VIEWS

107

If its owner has sufficient independent income to do
without it, he may lend the interest, so that the rate of
increment changes from simple to compound. The revenue
of the hypothetical farm is now hypothetically sold for more
gold and more farms. In six hundred years out of our
9-inch ball of gold, disposed of in this way, there would
arise legal claims to a golden ball equal in size to the earth,
and weighing four times as much.
Or, if we are to get the best out of both possible worlds,
let us maintain our chosen family in the state of the somewhat shabby gentility and diminished perpetual motion
possible on £500 a year, "putting by" half the income to
" accumulate." After enduring this for four centuries,
our family would he in a position to supply a world population of 2,000,000,000 souls each with the same principal
as itself it started with.
This is the celebrated fallacy of compound interest,
and we have already indicated briefly its origin, and have
still further to elaborate its nature, so far as orthodox
technical economics is concerned. But its origin is more
generaL Society, "in the unconscious recesses of its
being," remembers the day when there was neither economics nor science, nor even religions of the modern
Sabbath and Sunday type. Older than these, and infinitely
more powerful in its sway over the mind of man, there
still persists, as a full-blooded weekday religion, the
worship of the golden calf. That, at least, has survived,
though lovelier religions have come and gone, and time has
witnessed the passage" of all Olympus' faded hierarchy."

CHAPTER VI

THE TWO CATEGORIES OF WEALTH
THE NATURE AND DEFINITION OF ABSOLUTE WEALTH.
LET us see from the standpoint of modern knowledge,
whether light can be thrown on the difficult and vexed
question of the real nature of wealth rather than on the
particular modes by which its quantity or value may be
measured. The physical or material necessities of the
body must be satisfied before any of the further necessities
of life-whether sexual, intellectual, sesthetic or spiritualare even called for. A definition of wealth must be based
upon the nature of physical or material wealth, in the
sense of the physical requisites which empower and enable
human life-that is, which supply human beings with the
means to live, and, as an after consequence of living, to
love, think and pursue goodness, beauty and truth. The
enabling requisites of life, in this sense, constitute a short
definition of wealth. The purely physical criteria of wealth
demand consideration before the more special economic
criteria.
These enabling requisites are derived from and produced by the flow of available energy in Nature, and
represent drafts upon or deductions from this flow, in that
for the production of all forms of wealth available energy
is required from the natural flow, and either enters into
the wealth produced or is used up in producing it-that is,
is converted into waste heat.
The term available in this definition has the same
meaning as in the second law of thermodynamics, which
divides energy into two categories, useful, available or

THE TWO CATEGORIES OF WEALTH

109

" free" energy, and useless, unavailable or "bound"
energy, the latter also being designated entropy. But the
meaning is not essentially different from, only rather more
precise than, its ordinary significance. Only that kind
of energy is available which has the tendency to transform
itself into other forms. With unavailahle energy the last
form of natural transformation has been reached and the
tendency to suffer transformation disappears. It must
not be supposed, of course, that the reverse transformation
is impossible, but it is practically impossible, because it
requires the expenditure or degradation of a greater
amount of available energy into unavailable than is gained
in the reverse process. The thermodynamic conception of
availability has, of course, nothing in it limiting it specially
to life or to human life. Wealth as a form, product or
result of a draft upon the flow of available energy consists
of the special forms, products, or results which empower
and enable human life.

A DEBT OF LIFE REPAID IN LIFE.
In the continuous flow of available energy we find the
primary absolute want of human life, without which it
dies, and it is this want which wealth satisfies. The preposterous idea that there is no such thing as Absolute
\Vealth, but that there must be someone, not the owner,
who desires and demands it and is prepared to give up
something for its possession, is a mercantile view convenient
in cities which live upon the produce of the surrounding
country, but cannot be applied to nations. Chrematistics,
the science of wants and how they exchange is a very
useful science for individuals to understand, but it is at
best only one part of economics.
Thus tEe air is a most obvious want of life, and it is
argued that because it is impossible to own it, it is therefore not wealth. But if you liquefy it and put it in a bottle,
it can be owned, is wanted and demanded-very much so
in a modern university, at least-and then it becomes

HO

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

wealth and a regular article of commerce. A truer view is
that the gaseous nature of air and the universality of the
supply allow people normally to obtain their supplies without the expenditure of effort in the getting, whereas to
obtain it liquid much work in the physical sense as well
as diligence in the human sense are required.
So with food and fuel-which, no more and no less than
air, and for an identical reason, are needed to supply the
wantof the energy without which life dies-it is true people
want and demand them and are willing to give up something in exchange for them. But it is even more true
that people have to give up some of their lifetime in order
to produce them. Physical science, as distinct from psychical. holds out no hope whatever that wealth will ever be
produced without the expenditure of human-being-hours
as well as of available energy. If new discoveries provided
such food that corn was fit only to feed to cattle, and such
energy that coal and oil were useful only to make soot,
these would decline in value, and possibly even be entirely
displaced, but only because the needs of life could be better
subserved by other forms of wealth, themselves the products
of available energy and human time. Science may multiply
the efficiency of human time, but it does not abolish the
necessity of expending it in production.
It has been argued that wealth must not only be useful,
but usefully used. This is a metaphysical rather than a
scientific standpoint. Rightly or wrongly, the scientific
mind has decided to accept the theory of the conservation
of physical realities, apart altogether from the faculty of
apprehension. It points to the geological record of the
rocks as proving that the rocks were there before-applying
the J ohnsonian test of reality-there were feet to kick them.
The energy stored in corn and its power to nourish life are
physical realities apart altogether from the consideration
whether it is to be the future fate of the corn to rot or be
eaten. Corn which rots and is not eaten is assuredly not
wealth, but then neither is it when it is eaten and does
not rot.

THE TWO CATEGORIES OF WEALTH

III

Admittedly, these conception of the nature of Absolute
Wealth as a definite physical reality do not take us very
far in economics because they do not lead to a precise
method of relative measnrement, whereas the exchangevalue or money-price does. But at least they enable us
to offer a blunt denial to the physical origin of wealth as
something capable of being created out of nothing by the
human will.
When we try to measure the relative value of different
kinds of wealth, or of the different partial factors or ingredients that enter into its constitution, clearly the most
important and least arbitrary consideration is what the
wealth has cost of past human life to produce. But in this
the value of one man's time differs greatly from that of
another. Just as substances are esteemed in proportion
to their rarity, if required for living, and are valued on the
average in proportion to the time that must be spent in
findmg or winning them, so rare and exceptional skill or
ability is esteemed above the average, but only if it conduces (in the present tense) to the business of living. But
it has already been remarked that, as knowledge advances
and the processes of industry become less empirical and
more scientific, less and less exceptional ability is required
to operate them. The optical pyrometer replaces the
man who can judge furnace temperatures accurately with
the eye, and rule-of-thumb metallurgical processes, that
can only be operated by work-people born and brought up
to the industry, tend to be replaced by more scientific
and less uncertain methods requiring no exceptional skill.
So, in business and banking, if the national requirements
were foreseen in advance and a monetary system devised
which worked automatically, as it was intended it should,
special qualifications, certain of commanding a high reward
when everything is uncertain, speculative and empirical,
would no longer do so. The chief factors that oppose
reform and progress and strive to keep things as they are
are by no means inertia and ignorance, but thoroughly
well-informed individual self-interest.

112 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
Much has been said of the importance of genius and the
essentially creative type of mind, and it might be thought
that there would always be in industry and business glittering prizes for the brains that devise new methods. But in
this we have the old heresy that wealth can be created out
of nothing by the human mind or will. The man who
composes a musical work is rarer than those who can sing
or play it brilliantly. Such qualifications, compared with
origination, are mechanical, but they are the more highly
esteemed and rewarded, because it is the performance and
not the composition which subserves the needs of life.
So it is with the exploitation of inventions as distinct from
the inventive genius.
V ALUE OR PRICE.

The money-price or exchange-value of wealth brings in
a host of arbitrary considerations, such as the state of the
laws regarding the land and property, the incidence of
taxation, protection from competition, trusts, combinations and monopolies, the rate of increase or decrease of a
community, of a locality, and so on, almost ad in:finitum.
The money-price integrates the whole of a host of complex
factors, many of them in themselves too elusive to be traced.
Yet it is the one quantitative fact about wealth that can be
confidently asserted, and which is usually capable of being
ascertained. In this work no attempt will be made to
analyse it. "We should be lost in endless calculations."
From the point of view of national economics, in dealing
with the relations between money and wealth, the average
money-price of wealth, or price-level, is a fact of the utmost
importance, absolutely irrespective of how it is made up
and whether it is just or unjust.
But first it may be well to go a little deeper into the
question of the real nature of wealth from the physical
standpoint.
LABOUR AND WEALTH.

Life itself, in metabolism, consumes continuously a
flow of available energy-that is, converts it into useless

THE TWO CATEGORIES OF WEALTH

113

energy-and one form or category of wealth of necessity
consists of the food-stuffs which provide this flow. Life
also requires means to conserve its vital energy and protect
it from the rigour of the climate-clothes, houses and fuel,
means for locomotion, transport and external forms of
labour, and means to produce the tools, plant, equipment
and other accessory requisites incidental to the purpose of
producing the primary supplies. The only criterion which
distinguishes this varied collection of requisites is that they
all require and result from drafts upon the flow of natural
available energy.
Usually, but not invariably or inevitably, the production of any form or category of wealth demands also
the expenditure of human time and effort. In a state of
nature, however, especially in the tropics, where human
needs are few and sunshine abundant, there is a sufficiency
of the available energy of nature already available for
the purposes of human life, for a very limited population,
without the contribution of any human factor to its production. Fuel and clothes are hardly needed, and food
in the form of tropical fruits exist ready to hand, so that a.
very sparse and unambitious population can maintain itself
permanently in a condition of almost complete dolce far
niente. This fact alone controverts the Marxian doctrinewhich, as already stated, is not that of Marx-that all
wealth originates in human labour. Similarly, an occasional
quantity of precious metals may be found native without
human effort, though on the average a very large expenditure of effort is needed in the winning of them.
But in civilised forms of communities intensive forms of
production are necessary to support, in general, larger
numbers of people on a higher scale of living and plane
of civilisation than would be possible in a state of nature.
In those circumstances a human factor becomes essential
to the production of wealth, and it takes the form of initial
inventions and discoveries, hereafter applied continuously
with human effort. At first the effort largely consists of
actual physical labour supplied from the body of the

114 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
labourer in supplement of the natural flow of energy; but,
as civilisation advances, it consists more and more of diligence, pure and simple, in guiding non-human forms of
energy to human ends. From the energetic standpoint
the human contribution is always of the nature of a
transformation of rather than a creation of energy, becoming, as civilisation advances, more and more direct, with
the replacement of the intuitive metabolic process by
others arrived at by reason.
AN ELECTRICAL MODEL OF THE PRODUCTIVE SYSTEM.

An analogy which may prove of use is in the dynamo,
or dynamo-electric machine, considered as a transformer
of mechanical energy into electrical energy. This is accomplished by driving electric conductors across the lines of a
magnetic field-or a magnetic flux-a movement they
actively resist. The energy so used reappears in the form
of a flow of electric energy along the conductors, at right
angles to the magnetic lines and to the direction of motion.
Natural magnets exist as the lodestone, and from these
permanent steel magnets can be produced in indefinite
quantities. In the first forms of magneto-electric machines
natural magnets or permanent steel magnets were used to
produce the magnetic flux, and the transformation of the
mechanical into electric energy did not involve any expenditure of power whatever in producing or maintaining the
magnetic flux; but in the modern intensive form of
dynamo-electric machine a part of the electric energy
produced is expended in magnetising a soft-iron electromagnet, whereby, from a machine of given dimensions, a
very greatly increased output becomes possible. It is
significant that the mechanical energy produces not only
the useful part of the electric energy generated, but also
the part of the product which has to be expended in magnetising the iron, and that this latter part does not appear in
the final product, but is degraded at once into useless heat
by overcoming the dead resistance to the flow of the current

THE TWO CATEGORIES OF WEALTH

115

through the copper conductors wound round the magnets.
Moreover, theoretically, this loss is not essential. If a
better conductor than copper were available, less of the
product would have so to be turned into useless heat, and,
if an infinitely good conductor existed, none would so be
lost. Some conductors in the neighbourhood of the absolute
zero of temperature are practically perfect. A current
once started in a copper ring at very low temperature will
go on circulating for hours before its original energy is
wholly converted into heat.
So we may envisage the production of wealth as a
transformation of the available energy of Nature into a
flow available for the purpose of human life-a part of it
actually into the energy of human life. In the natural
state no expenditure of human energy is necessary. In
intensive production it is, but the energy so used is deducted
from not added to the product. It produces its useful
results indirectly, and runs to waste without appearing in
or being incorporated with the final product. Its function
is to change the quality of the natural available energy
into the form available for the needs of life, and the gain
in quality is a consequence of a reduction in quantity. It
is, of course, very useful in attempting to understand any
process to have a concrete physical model, however crude,
in the mind, and the analogy suggested seems to cover
correctly the essential features alike of primitive, modern,
and possible eventual processes of wealth production.
Even the steady displacement of human labour in mass
production, as the process becomes more and more automatic and self-regulating, finds its analogy in the reduction
of the magnetic reluctance of the circuit by employing
better iron and the electrical resistance of the field-magnet
circuit by employing better conductors or conductors at
lower temperature.

THE Two THERMODYNAMIC CATEGORIES OF WEALTH.
We have found it useful in our consideration of the
laws of energy to distinguish between the expenditure of

116 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
energy in overcoming an active opposition, in which there
is something useful, in energy, to show for the expenditure
at the end of the process, and the expenditure of energy in
overcoming dead resistance, in which the energy expended
suffers immediate conversion into heat and there is nothing
useful, in energy, to show for the expenditure at the end
of the process. The idea extended to wealth enables us
to distinguish at once the two main categories of wealth
according to the manner in which the energy has been
expended. In the first category are commodities which
retain part of the energy expended in their production, as
an internal store, which, in the consumption of these commodities, is released to serve the purposes of life. In the
second category the energy is expended in overcoming
dead resistance, in changing the form or nature of the
materials worked upon, and does not remain in the materials
as an essential to their use.
PERISHABLE AND PERMANENT WEALTH.

Commodities, in general, belong to both categories,
and these categories are distinguished by the opposite
qualities of relative perishability and permanence. Commodities of the first category are valuable as stores of
energy. In them the materials of which they are made
serve as the container for a store of available energy. In
functioning as wealth they are totally consumed or destroyed as wealth, and this perishability is essential to their
function. Energy is of no value in itself, and the flow of
energy from one thing to another and from one place to
another alone is valuable. The material counterpart of
the tendency of energy to flow is the tendency of materials
to change. Liability to rot, decay, catch fire, suffer slow
deterioration is thus an essential quality of this category
of wealth. It comprises food, fuel, explosives, some forms
of fertilisers, and similar materials, which actually fulfil
the purpose which gives them the title of wealth only by
suffering total conversion into waste matter and energy.
Whereas in the second category permanence rather than

THE TWO CATEGORIES OF WEALTH

117

perishability is the essential quality. It comprises clothes,
houses, and their equipment and furniture, in general
" possessions," as well as tools, plant, roads, vehicles, ships
and other accessory requisites necessary for the production
and supply of wealth.
CAPITAL AGENTS OF PRODUCTION.

In contradistinction to the first category, though destruction in use cannot be altogether avoided, it is not essential to their function, but a disadvantage. Rather they
are required to resist wear and tear and to last as long
as possible, and for this reason are often made of very
refractory and resistant substances, which necessitate the
expenditure of much energy in their conversion into wealth.
In so far as the energy used upon them remains in the
materials in a potential form, their durability and value
as wealth are adversely affected. Thus distinctly opposite
characters distinguish between the two thermodynamic
categories of wealth:
The building of a house cannot be effected without
storing up some of the energy expended in erecting it, and
the presence of this store of potential energy causes the
house in time to fall down again. Whereas the house is
wealth only for so long as it stands. So it is with iron.
Iron embodies in itself a large part of the energy liberated
in the combustion of the fuel used to smelt it from its
ores, the possession of which causes it to rust, Le. to revert
to its initial oxidised state. But whereas the store of
energy is essential to coal as wealth, it is an unavoidable defect
in the case of iron. To run a locomotive the coal must be
consumed, but the combustion of the iron, though it cannot
be altogether prevented, is no advantage, but a dead loss.
If, with the same desirable engineering qualities, iron had
the durability of gold or platinum, it would be even more
valuable as wealth. But corn or beef with the durability of
the noble metals or precious stones would not be wealth at all.
In engineering, the term power signifies, in contradistinction to energy or work, the rate at which the energy is

118

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

spent or the work is done, and a power quantity is converted into an energy quantity by multiplying it by a
duration of time. Life similarly, from the physical standpoint, has the dimensions of power, and is expressed in
energy terms by multiplying it by the duration of time to
which it refers. Thus we have already seen that a million
Calories-a quantity of energy-suffice to maintain the food
requirements of an average man for the duration of one year:
Now although the doctrine that all wealth is the product
of human labour is not true, that all wealth is the product
of work, in the physical sense of the expenditure of available energy, is for practical purposes absolutely true, and
almost the only general and satisfactory definition of wealth
that can be framed. Money, credit, and other legal claims
to wealth are debts, rather than wealth. Labour and
inventions are not wealth, though essential factors in its
production. The physical definition of wealth is a form or
product of energy or work which enables or empowers life.
Exceptions might possibly be found as regards the
second category of wealth, but they do not invalidate the
rule that, on the average, a definite expenditure of work
and time is required for the production of a given quantity
of any kind of wealth. The occasional find of a nugget of
gold by accident without any special search may be cited
as an exception, as the occasional find of wild-fruit is an
exception to the rule that human labour is necessary to
the production of wealth. But in national economics,
dealing primarily with averages rather than exceptional
events, they may be completely ignored.
The expenditure of energy is necessary for the production
of all wealth, but the regeneration of the energy expended
in a form available for the needs of life takes place only in
the case of the first category. For brevity the two categories may be distinguished as Wealth I and Wealth n.
We may denote, after the manner of a chemical equation,
the production and consumption of Wealth I as :

+

Raw Materials
Available Energy = Wealth I.
Wealth I = Life-Energy
Waste Energy and Materials.

+

THE TWO CATEGORIES OF WEALTH

119

For Wealth n the production is expressed by :
Raw Materials + Available Energy = Wealth II + Waste Energy,

but there is no corresponding equation for consum-ption, The
degradation of the energy has already gone to its last
stage, and in this sense Wealth 11 is already" consumed."
AN ILLUSTRATION FROM CHEMISTRY.

Even in pure science, the distinction between the two
different reasons why the production of a substance requires
the expenditure of energy is not always very precisely
made. Sometimes one has to climb a mountain, as it
were, in order subsequently to be able to run down by the
aid of the energy stored up, as with Wealth I. But often
the climb is necessary because there is no level way round,
as with Wealth n. Thus in the process known as the
fixation of atmospheric nitrogen, whereby the nitrogen
and oxygen of the air are caused to combine to give oxides
of nitrogen by exposing them to the very high temperature
of the electric arc, a very large expenditure of energy is
required. This, indeed, is the origin of the description of
the Swiss valleys as glacier at one end and 98 per cent
nitric acid at the other. Yet the energy expended is not
embodied in the oxides of nitrogen, but goes to waste as
heat, as in the production of Wealth n. The process is
analogous to a journey from one place to another on much
the same level over a very high mountain, necessitating a
great expenditure of work with nothing in the end but
waste heat to show for it, unless a way round can be found.
In this case a way round was found, and it fixed more
than nitrogen: it fixed the date of the Great War. For
Germany, without any great natural sources of power,
and cut off by superior navies from the external sources of
nitrates-which are shipped from the Peruvian seaboard
and form the raw material for the manufacture of all
explosives-could otherwise hardly have waged war for
three months. The Haber process was the result, in which
the nitrogen is combined first with hydrogen to form

120 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
ammonia, under high pressure but at moderate temperature,
by the aid of a catalyst, and then the ammonia is oxidised
by the action of air and water to nitric acid by the aid
of another catalyst. This process requires no excessive
expenditure of power.
So, in general, for Wealth II (which includes not only
all permanent possessions, but all agents of production)
new processes are continually finding a more level road
around the intervening mountains, whereas for Wealth I
this possibility of improvement does not exist. These
new processes depreciate the value of all capital expended
upon the old, and tend to destroy it as wealth by rendering
it obsolete.
REPAYMENTS GIVEN BY 'WEALTH.

Since both categories of wealth are alike in the manner
of their production, but completely different in their physical
character and in the manner in which they, respectively,
empower and enable life, the definition of wealth necessarily
is based upon what is consumed or used up in its production
rather than upon what it actually is or what, in turn, it
yields. From the physical standpoint so much live energy
and so much human time have been expended in its production and represent a cost or debt-charge incurred to Nature
and to men. As regards Nature, it is the sun which is
debited and the earth credited, so that from the standpoint
of humanity the energy is a gift. Under natural conditions
the whole revenue of available energy runs to waste, whether
used or not, and wealth is the part of it man has salved.
The expenditure of human time in salving the energy is
the only real debt-charge upon the products in the ultimate
analysis, when we narrow the point of view from that of
physics to that of economics. If the product is useful and
is used, the debt in man-hours is repaid in man-hours, and
the physical possibility of the maintenance and expansion
of life depends upon the repayment, on the average, being
vastly in excess of the expenditure. Economically this is
an increment, but physically it is not, as we have already

THE TWO CATEGORIES OF WEALTH

121

seen from the analogy of a dynamo. In terms of the actual
fount of vigour which energises life, the expenditure goes
to waste in overcoming resistance, and the increment is
derived from the live energy salved from the natural flow.
As regards the first category of wealth, for which use
means total consumption, the repayment is definite in
quantity, and is of the nature of a lump sum of energy
and living-hours. But as regards the second category, in
which destruction is not essential to use, payment is of the
nature of a revenue, neither energy nor living hours, but
of living hours saved which otherwise would require to be
spent-over a period of time which is quite indefinite. It
depends not only on the relative durability of the wealth
considered, but on purely independent factors deciding
whether the wealth is actually used or not, and this involves
the future state of progress and invention and the state
of common sense of the community.
The point of view brings out the necessity of first expending the time and energy, whatever happens to the
product, and the fact that, in real quantities, the wealth
is paid for at the time that it is produced. The ability to
pour out for five years a mounting tide of munitions is
evidence of a nation's wealth. Conceivably during their
production the nation might have had to go short of other
requisites; but there is no physical reason, after they have
been produced, why it should do so, or for the conventional
belief that because so much has been blown up and wasted
everyone must tighten their belts and endure a period of
poverty. If national debt was repaid, some would, in order
that others might consume, whereas the national creditors
prefer a small annual repayment for not being repaid. The
popular notion that because a nation has in the past generation produced it is unable to do so in the next, that God
and usury provide so much and no more, and if we consume
much one ycar we must make up for it by consuming less in
the future, is the inversion of the truth. It contains just
enough of the truth as it applies to individuals-that wealth
is a real quantity, incapable of spontaneous generation and

122 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
multiplication-to be plausible; but in national terms it
is as fallacious as abstaining from drinking from a river
because last year was hot and everyone drunk so much,
or shutting down a power station until an abnormally high
past load had been recouped.
CAPITAL AS A FORM: OF PERMANENT WEALTH.

This is especially applicable to the second category of
wealth, which includes all the agents of production, usually
termed capital. Thus with a vague idea that wealth is
" consumed" in use, which we have seen is essential to the
first category but only incidental and a defect in the case
of the second, people envisage wealth production as entailing
a steady consumption of machines as well as coal, oil and
food; whereas, in point of fact, this consumption by use
is often not very serious, and is always, as far as possible,
provided for, or capable of being provided for. A vast
machine for making motor engines probably has the actual
wearing parts, the cutting edges of the tools, renewed
many times in a day, if not in an hour. The journals and
bearings, similarly, are made renewable. Of far more
consequence to the deterioration of capital agents of production-such as factories and cultivated land-is neglect
through not being used, and, in the case of the former,
new inventions which displace them. The other losses are
often of lesser importance. In their production the process, as regards the degradation of the live energy, has gone
one stage farther than in the production of consumable
wealth, and in this sense they are already fully consumed.
They are only productive by use, and if unused become
simple unrepaid debt.
Psychologically, the economic aim of the individual is,
always has been, and probably always will be, to secure a
permanent revenue independent of further effort, proof
against the passage of time and the chance of circumstance,
to support himself in old age and his family after him in
perpetuity. He endeavours so to do by accumulating so

THE TWO CATEGORIES OF WEALTH

123

much property in the heyday of his youth that he and his
heirs may live on the interest on it in perpetuity afterwards.
Economic and social history is the conflict of this human
aspiration with the laws of physics, which make such a
perpetuum mobile impossible, and reduces the problem
merely to the method by which one individual may get
another individual or the community into his debt and
prevent repayment, so that the individual or community
must share the produce of their efforts with their creditor.
We have examined the process in the traditional method
of living by ownership of land, and now we have to consider
the modern method of living upon interest on capital.
The second category of wealth divides itself naturally
into personal possessions, which are necessary to the enjoyment or consumption of wealth, and organs of production
necessary to its creation. The latter, being essentially
permanent and not consumed by use, but actually productive by use, seem at first sight to offer humanity a way of
escape from the laws of physics and from economic dependence, because they appear to repay the debt of time
incurred in their production by a perennial revenue of time
saved by their use.
CAPITAL MULTIPLIES HUMAN EFFICIENCY.

The first category of wealth contains, to offset the debt
of time incurred in its production, a definite positive quantity of energy available for life, yielded up as a lump sum
when the wealth is consumed. The second category pays
the debt of time incurred in its production by time saved
by its use, and which, but for the existence of the wealth,
would have to be spent. But for the organs of production
the payment is of the nature of a revenue of time saved
over an indefinite period, which continues as long as the
wealth is used to facilitate production. So that, if the
use is continuous, as in the production of perishable wealth,
the hours spent in its winning are saved over and over
again. This apparently endless payment for a definite

124 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
experiditure of time is, of course, the physical basis for
the origin of interest, defined as the hire-payment for the
use of organs of production in production.
Actually no kind of wealth is absolutely permanent and
proof against wear and tear, and the durability varies from
that of such relatively short-lived possessions as clothes to
that of the diamond. In practice, in addition to the provision of the first category of consumable wealth, a community must maintain in repair its possessions and organs
of production. But this does not affect the nature of the
problem, and in practice it is customary to suppose a part
of the time saved by the use of capital expended as required
in its perpetual maintenance, leaving still a permanent
net interest.
It may be said at once that there is nothing to prevent
a dominant class in possession of political power from so
arranging things that a certain limited tribute may be
exacted in perpetuity from the actual producers of wealth
by the hire-payment for the use of capital, just as there is
no physical impossibility in living by the ownership of
land under similar political circumstances. It was impossible for the landowner to set himself flagrantly against
the laws of Nature. The failure of the capitalistic era is
due to the nature of interest and "capital" being misunderstood, and to the idea of perennial interest being
extended from payment for the use of organs of production
in the production of perishable wealth to payment for the
non-repayment of any sort of debt. There are well-defined
limits to the possible interest that can be exacted from a
community which cannot be exceeded by increasing the
capital.
CAPITAL OANNOT MULTIPLY HUMAN TIME.

For capital multiplies the efficiency of the expenditure
of human time, but it does not multiply human time,
though it attempts always to do so by lengthening the
hours of employment up to and beyond the limit of human
endurance. This statement is historically justified by a

THE TWO CATEGORIES OF WEALTH

125

very slight acquaintance with the industrial history of this
country prior to the Factory Acts. The process is taking
place before our eyes to-day in the East, where the HongKong legislature have recently passed legislation prohibiting
the working of children more than nine hours a day out of
the twenty-four and six days out of the seven. In China,
which has as yet not reached the stage of legislation regulating industrial hours of work, the conditions are described
as very similar and as horrible as those that occurred in
this country prior to the passing of the Factory Acts.
Whatever may be thought of the economics of Marx,
which to the author appears no less metaphysical than
and as divorced from essential knowledge of the physics
of the productive system as the systems of the more
orthodox, no one who has read Capital can fail to have
been impressed with the stores of sociological erudition
in that volume, for the most part in voluminous footnotes.
Written at the time when the laissez-faire policy of Governments left unchecked the evils of sweating and the
exploitation of the workers by the industrial system, it
forms for all time a record of some of the almost incredible
abuses that attended the earlier history of the great
accumulation of capital in this country. To-day, a revolted
public opinion and the growing economic power of trade
unions has to some extent redressed the balance, but in
the East and in other countries where the capitalist systems
are still uncontrolled the first effects in lengthening the hours
of labour, and in using women and children as the cheapest
sort of labour, are as much in evidence as they were in
this country at the time when Marx wrote his "Bible of
the working classes."
CAPITAL INCREASES EITHER LEISURE OR WEALTH.

The use of capital saves time or increases the output of
wealth, and in so far as its return is taken in the one form,
so much the less is available of the other. But the limit
of production of wealth is fixed by the state of scientific

126 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
and technical knowledge and business organisation, and
the number of possible working hours in the day. Once
the capital necessary to enable the workers to employ the
methods of production which are dictated by the state
of technical development has been accumulated, further
accumulation is sheer waste. It can only be used by
lengthening the hours of work, and then only to the extent
of human endurance. The apparent perpetual productivity
of capital wealth and its superiority over consumable
wealth in this respect leads always to the covetous exalting
the production of capital as thrift and the production of
consumable wealth as extravagance, whereas the physical
basis of perpetual interest is not in the production of capital,
but solely in its use in producing the first category of
consumable wealth. Its use in producing perishable
wealth is permanent, but in producing permanent wealth
is ephemeral.
For possessions, like capital, accumulate. Once a community has accumulated possessions sufficient to enable
it to consume its wealth in accordance with the scale of
living fixed by its rate of consumption, more possessions,
like more capital, become a useless charge and a burden
upon the possessors. In brief, both forms of permanent
wealth, for different reasons, only accumulate to the point
at which they come into equilibrium with the rate of consumption of perishable wealth.
A physical analogy would a reservoir in a water supply.
At first, when the reservoir is empty, the water flowsin faster
than it flows out, until a certain height or head of water in
the reservoir accumulates, sufficient to drive the water out
of the reservoir as fast as it flows in, after which the water
in the reservoir remains constant. So with each increase
in the flow of wealth by scientific discovery, at first part
of the wealth accumulates as new possessions and capital,
but the only possible permanent condition is when the
rate of inflow equals that of outflow, or the rate of consumption equals that of production.
In future. if any class in the community desires to live

THE TWO CATEGORIES OF WEALTH

127

upon interest, it must encourage and not discourage the
production of consumable wealth, and discourage the
production of capital except as required to produce perishable wealth. Abstinence in this respect might preserve
the method of livelihood, like that of ownership of land,
for an indefinite period without conflict with physical
possibility.
In practice the foregoing simple considerations are
invalidated to the extent to which it is possible to export
permanent wealth to foreign countries in exchange for consumable wealth, but in the long run, over the whole world,
they must be true. This is an important consideration as
regards this country which, traditionally as one of the leaders
in the use of mechanical power, has in the past succeeded in
exporting considerable quantities of permanent in exchange
for perishable wealth. But this can only be a somewhat
precarious situation, for as the world fills up, not only do
the new countries make more and more of their own
machinery, but they consume more and more of the food
they produce. Unless we again contrive to get the lead
in technical inventions in the use of power, it is clear
that the ultimate future policy of this country will have
to be directed towards the home production of consumable
wealth, i.e. its neglected agriculture will have to be revived.
THE LIMIT AT WHICH THE ACCUMULATION OF
DEFEATS ITS OBJECT.

CAPITAL

Some of the foregoing conclusions may be put beyond
dispute if they are stated in general algebraic terms. Let
us suppose that by the expenditure of some large initial
amount of time-equivalent to, say, T working years of
the whole community-in the accumulation of the necessary
capital certain technical advances can be got into operation, which will permanently increase the efficiency of the
working-hour by the factor X. If the community produces
wealth thenceforth at the same rate as before it will do so
in I/Xth of the time, and save [1 - I/X] of its former
working-time, i.e. will gain this amount of leisure.

128 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
Whereas, if the community works the same time as
before and produces X times as much wealth as it did, its
gain is in wealth to the extent of (X - 1) of its former
wealth. If T working years have to be expended to provide
the necessary capital in the first case to produce the same
wealth as before, to produce X times the former wealth,
as in the second case, will require X times greater abstinence from consumption, or XT years of working-time.
If the community adopts some intermediate course and
decides to abstain to the extent of YT years, so as to be able
to produce Y times its former wealth, where Y is any factor
between unity and X, it now works Y/X of its former
working-time, saves [1 - Y/X] of it as leisure, and gains
(Y - 1) of its former wealth. It is clear that if Y is made
equal to X, as in the second case considered, the community
has X times as much wealth as it had but no additional
leisure in which to enjoy it, so that its abstinence from
consumption to the extent of XT years does not reduce its
working hours or result in any increase in its average
gentility. At this point a still further expenditure of
working hours on capital production brings a further increase
in the daily task also, and the community as a whole still
further from its object in initially abstaining from leisure
to accumulate capital.
The gain in leisure is [1 - Y IX], and though it is easily
made zero when Y = X, it can never be made unity, but
reaches a maximum when Y is unity and the community
are content with the same wealth as before. This is the
algebraic way of saying what is-political polemics notwithstanding-the most obvious common sense. However
much an individual may contrive by being in possession of
agents of production-accumulated by the expenditure of
past working-time, whether his own or that of others-to
live without any further contribution of present workingtime, the community of which he is a member cannot do so,
but must supply the working hours to operate the capital
he owns, even when he has provided it by his own
abstinence.

THE TWO CATEGORIES OF WEALTH

129

Of the two factors necessary for the production of
wealth he provides but one. Thus the principles, so clear
when we consider the case of the average state of the
community as a whole, give rise to quite unsolved, if not
insoluble, social problems when one set of people own the
capital and another set operate it. There is no known
theoretical method of equating the sum-total of hours of
past labour expended on the provision of capital against
the continuous expenditure of present working hours
necessary to make it productive, or of determining what
is, ethically, the just distribution of the increment.

CHAPTER VII

MONEY OLD AND MONEY NEW
THE MECHANISM FOR DISTRIBUTING WEALTH AMONG
INDIVIDUALS FOR CONSUMPTION.

A STUDY of how wealth originates and of its different categories logically precedes the study of its consumption and
use. Life is, in the physical sense of human-being-hours,
the product of wealth as wealth is the product of energy
and human time. Such considerations obviously lie at the
root of any inquiry into political or national economy, and
take precedence over questions of ownership, distribution
and exchange, which are of first importance to individual
economy. The production of wealth is, in civilised communities, communal rather than individual. The process is
so differentiated that a reversion to primitive individualistic
methods of production would mean death to the greater
part of the community. Those that would survive are
by no means those generally considered to be wealthy as
individuals, but the farmers and peasants actually engaged
in food production. If, through political chaos, individualistic methods in the production of wealth came into
operation, they alone could maintain indefinitely a rude
uncivilised type of existence.
But the use and consumption of wealth, in the enabling
and empowering of life, is individual and not communal.
A man's life is his own personal and individual affair in
a state of political freedom, and claims prior consideration
even to that of the community. The life of the community
in its physical aspect is the aggregate merely of the lives of
its individual members, whereas the wealth of a community
has no necessary relation to the claims upon its present and

MONEY OLD AND MONEY NEW

131

future wealth which constitutes the wealth of its component
individuals. It is, in Ruskin's phrase, "the rule and root
of all economy" that what one person has, or claims,
many others than himself have had, or will have, to exert
themselves to make.
Money is the device which, whether consciously or
intuitively, gives effect to this relationship between wealth
and life, for it enables the individuals in a community,
personally and as individuals, to indent upon the fruits of
the total activities of the commonwealth and to own, use
and consume, whilst contributing, if at all, only a limited
and specialised part in the production.
THE DANGERS OF MONEY.

Money, or some equivalent, is, in consequence, a necessity
in any civilisation or community above the stage where
everyone produces all that he or she consumes. But it is
a dangerous necessity, for all that, only too apt to engender
in the body politic social diseases potent enough to bring
the proudest nations to the dust. It substitutes for the
natural inalienable right of the worker to the produce of
his toil a vague generalised claim upon the totality of the
fruits of the community's efforts-a highly indefinite
quantity, which opens the door to every kind of abuse.
On the moral side, it divorces the conception of wealth
from the dignity of labour, a sanctifying connection driven
home by the genius of Thomas Hood in the simple linesIt is not linen you are wearing out,
But human creatures' lives!

and by Ruskin's words: "Luxury at present can only be
enjoyed by the ignorant; the cruellest man living could not
sit at his feast unless he sat blindfold."
The variation of the purchasing power of money exposes
the community to wholesale injustice on the one side and
undeserved gain on the other, as assuredly as if the one set
had been despoiled of their belongings by'the other by
robbery and violence. But worse than all, it paves the

132 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
way to the economic subjugation of humanity to monetary
power because of the confusion in the minds of people
between money and wealth. By substituting for the
" conception of a realised amount" "a periodical receipt"
of an infinitude of future interest payments, it tries to
condemn to eternal slavery generations not yet born. It is
therefore of the utmost importance that all those who wish
to understand social problems should understand and make
themselves masters of the subject of money. That no one
yet understands it is a truism. Least of all those who have
made a special study of it--starting always from the initial
inversion that money is national wealth rather than debtseem able to answer intelligibly the simplest questions about
it that it would occur to the veriest tyro to ask.
THE SIMPLEST QUESTIONS A.BOUT MODERN MONEY
A.RE UNANSWERABLE.

How is money made, by the King and Royal Mint,
or by the banks 1 How much money is there 1 Does
money bear interest 1 What is precisely the distinction
between bad money and good, between what is issued by
the King and Royal Mint, by a counterfeiter, or by the
banks 1 What is the correct quantity of money needed
for the conduct of a nation's business, and why cannot it
be printed as railway tickets are, or as food tickets were
during the War without an elaborate mystical apotheosis
of the golden calf and a bowing down to vulgar fallacies
concerning the fecundity of debt 1
Even a child can understand the reason why money was
made of a valuable metal. A commercial transaction in
which gold bullion exchanges for goods is simple barter.
When we pass from bullion to gold and silver coins, which
circulate practically for ever, from these to a national paper
money, like the papier mache of Kubla Khan or the
American" greenbacks," then to the modern bank-note and
cheque which have practically displaced national money,
and then to the various forms of elusive bank credit,

MONEY OLD AND MONEY NEW

133

" created out of and de-created into Absolute Nothingness
by the mere fiat of the Human Will," the simplest questions
that would occur to the mind of a child seem incapable of
a definite answer. If it was once considered an elementary
principle of honesty, and self-evident that the nation's
currency should be of just weight and fineness and issued
only by a duly authorised Mint, how are the vital national
interests in the creation of money properly safeguarded
now that the big transactions of the world are carried on
by cheques, bank-notes, and other forms of paper credit
that never saw the inside of a Mint 1
It is absolutely unavoidable, before proceeding further,
for the reader to try to understand the existing monetary
system. In all the ramifications of the evolution of the
conception of money it is essential that one main thread
running through them should never be for one moment
l~st sight of. It is the same thread one must pursue in
passing from the common conception of money, as it is
thoroughly well understood by every individual, to the
conception of money as a national instrument to effect the
distribution and allocation of the community's wealth,
for the historical evolution of money in the community
mirrors the evolution in the mind of a learner trying to
master the subject.
THE EVOLUTION OF MONEY.

The first or individual conception of money is that of a
gold or silver coin-of definite value and intrinsic worth
if melted into bullion and so demonetised-being exchanged
for goods in general of equal value, a simple barter. The
second or national conception of money is different because
the gold money is never demonetised by being melted
when used as internal currency. It circulates indefinitely.
A simple sale of goods for a given piece of money has to be
considered with respect to the previous transaction in which
the seller acquired the piece of money by giving something
in exchange first and the subsequent transaction in which

134 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
he passes it on, himself buying something with it. It then
appears that what really gives the coin its value is not that
it is made of gold or silver, so much as that it is legal payment
for debt.
A seller hands over to the buyer the possession of certain
wealth, and, to discharge the debt, the buyer hands over to
the seller money as legal payment, and so transfers to him
a legal claim to anything he can purchase of equal value
to that which he has sold, whenever he cares to exercise it.
In the case of a genuine loan of money from lender to
borrower, or creditor to debtor, the borrower who receives
the money incurs an equal debt to the lender. In the case
of a sale of goods for money the buyer who receives the
goods pays the debt he incurs with money, and so confers
upon the seller in exchange for what he has given up an
equal credit or right to be repaid in wealth on demand.
In the first case the borrower gives his personal promise to
repay the creditor; in the second case the buyer gives
money, which is the nation's generalised promise to repay
the seller the wealth he has given to the buyer, whenever
he pleases.
We thus come to look upon money-quite irrespective
of whether it is specie or paper-as a token certifying that
the owner of it is a creditor of the general community and
entitled to be repaid in wealth on demand.
The only difference between specie and paper money is
that in the first case the nation's creditor holds in his hand
not only the nation's promise to repay on demand, but also
the means of enforcing the demand, if the nation should
default;' by melting the coin and destroying it as money,
so gaining the gold out of which it is made in repayment of
his debt. In the case of an inconvertible paper money he
has not that power. In the case of a paper money convertible on demand into gold money he has the power, but only
exceptionally, as an individual, provided too many other
individuals do not at the same time try to exercise their
1 The common mode of default is when the currency is debased or
depreciated in purchasing power.

MONEY OLD AND MONEY NEW

135

power also. If they did, there would generally be only
a small fraction of the necessary gold in existence to satisfy
their claims to it.
Thus the next step to a complete divorce between the
original notion of money as a form of wealth to barter for
equivalent goods and the modern token as a credit instrument that confers upon the owner a right to a repayment
of wealth, merely awaits the devising of a suitable guarantee
to the owner of the money that the nation will not default,
which shall be as acceptable as the crude method of
incorporating with the token of indebtedness an equivalent
of gold or silver.
Let us now contrast the state of a nation under a gold
or silver currency of full value and a credit currency
respectively. The first certainly presents no difficulties.
The specie is part of the national wealth. No one in the
community has a monetary claim to wealth beyond the
wealth in the possession of the community, and no one part
of that wealth has, on account of the money system, more
than one owner at the same time. True, individuals may
owe and be owed amongst themselves, and those owed may
sell the debt to others, transferring their claims much as
credit money circulates. But no one here would be so
bold as to claim that by multiplying ownership you
multiply wealth. If B owes A £1,000, B mayor may not
have real property to the value of £1,000, which can be
regarded as behind the debt and as security for its repayment. But even if he has, no one in his senses could argue
that, because A and B are to this extent joint owners of the
same property, its value in joint ownership is double that
in separate ownership. !€1,000 is a £1,000, whether
owned by A or B or both at the same time, and does not
in the latter case become !E2,000.1 This would be transparently absurd.
Under a credit currency, paper money, cheques and
1 Throughout, for brevity, the symbol 1£ is used to express a pound~
sterling's worth of wealth or goods, and is always to be read in this full
sense.

136 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
bank-notes replace specie without any important difference,
save that no gold or other valuable material is incorporated
in the token of national indebtedness. There is no wealth
in the possession of the owners of the money, and there
need be none in the possession of the nation behind these
claims. Hence, if we regard the owners of paper money as
national creditors, just as in the case of the individual
creditors and debtors, there is a joint ownership of the
property of the nation, as between its legal owners and
those with money, and, as a consequence of the money
system, part of the wealth of the nation has more than
one owner at the same time. The monetary claim is limited
to wealth in the market for sale and the debt circulates
indefinitely, being transferred from buyer to seller and not
cancelled. Hence it comes about that though there is
nothing behind these claims, there need not be, because
the nation is a continuing organisation, and, to distribute
its wealth, some people must always actually prefer a
claim on goods in the market in general, exercisable at will,
to possession Of the equivalent of anyone form of wealth.
From this necessity arises the further deduction that, even
in the case of gold money, it is not the gold that is the real
inducement that tempts a seller of commodities to exchange
them for money, but the power a national credit token
confers on the holder to satisfy his needs in wealth on
demand. Even with a golden guinea it is the guinea stamp
and not the gold that constitutes it money. If a man
wants gold he buys it from a jeweller or bullion merchant.
Hence all the human toil and effort expended in winning
the precious metals for the purpose of currency is unnecessary, so long as the coins circulate and are not melted
down and demonetised. They represent a waste of the
community's labour, which it has to make good in real
useful wealth to the owner of the coin on demand, no
more and no less than a paper-money token represents,
without any such wasted effort at all, that the community
must make good to the owner the amount of his claim to
real useful wealth on demand.

MONEY OLD AND MONEY NEW

137

VIRTUAL VVEALTH.

Hence we arrive at the conclusion that, in the one case
as in the other, the monetary system of distributing wealth
does so because of the power it confers upon individuals
not to possess but to be owed wealth to which they are
entitled, in order that any kind or quantity desired may be
obtained as and when required without effort. Money is

t
WEALTH
ZERO
OF

~

LINE

e

NO WEALTH

~
~

'~

d
Q)

~

! l-----------Time ~

FIG, I.-THE PRINCIPLE OF VIRTUAL WEALTH.

not wealth even to the individual, but the evidence that the
owner of the money has not received the wealth to which
he is entitled, and that he can demand it at his own convenience. So that in a community, of necessity, the aggregate

138 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
money, irrespective of its amount, represents the aggregate
value of the wealth which the community prefers to be
owed on these terms rather than to own. This negative
quantity of wealth I term the Virtual Wealth of the
community because the community is obliged, by its
monetary system and the necessity of having one, to act
as though it possessed this much more wealth than it
actually does possess.
As a community grows in numbers and in revenue
or income, so does its Virtual Wealth grow too, as
indicated in the diagram (Fig. 1). Thus at a time tt> if the
real wealth of a community offered for sale is represented
by ab, its virtual wealth may be be, so that it can and must
act as if it possessed wealth to the extent ae, of which ab
is owned and be is owed. At a later time t2, if its real
wealth on the market has grown to de, its virtual wealth
will correspondingly have grown to eJ, so that it can and
must act as if it possessed df. There must be a rough,
though not necessarily exact, proportionality between the
positive and negative components, and both must start
from zero, as the diagram indicates.
THE Two KINDS OF NATIONAL CREDIT.

In this way we come to see that, just as in reckoning the
wealth of an individual-if he possesses personal credit or
power of running into debt-we must start, not from the
zero of wealth, but from a negative quantity-what he
would owe if he had spent all he owns and all he owessomething similar is necessarily true of a nation. But the
origin of this "credit" is entirely different in the two
cases. In the case of an individual it is exercised at the
expense of and with the consent of another individual,
usually as a business accommodation or concession for
which the debtor pays interest. In the other case, it is a
necessity inherent to the communal nature of production
and individual nature of consumption, and which arises
out of the monetary system of distribution. It benefits

MONEY OLD AND MONEY NEW

139

all the members of the community, in proportion to their
monetary holdings, to be owed rather to own a certain
part of the wealth to which they are entitled. This Virtual
Wealth is thus a peculiar part of national credit, and is
sharply to be distinguished from the rest, which, indeed,
is the only part of the national credit usually recognised,
and which is in no way different from that of an individual.
Thus, when MacLeod says, "So also the Credit of the
State by which it can purchase Money and other things
by giving persons the Right to Demand a series of future
payments from it is National Wealth," he really means
that the national credit enables the State to acquire wealth
and claims to wealth owned by its individual citizens
without immediate repayment, and this is no more
national wealth than a merchant's credit is. Exercised,
it creates interest-bearing National Debt, in which repayment is not indefinitely avoided, as it would be if the State
printed money in the correct amount and exchanged it
for goods. The National Debt must continue to be paid
for until it is repaid. Whereas the Virtual Wealth of the
community, although it is National Debt in one sense, is
permanent, necessary, beneficial, normally non-repayable
and non-interest-bearing debt. It is, of course, the confusion
between these two kinds of national credit, and the carrying
over of what is only true of a community to the individual,
that is responsible for the almost mystical powers with
which Credit is associated in many people's minds.
The expert, on the other hand, will say: "Have you
not by a roundabout way arrived at what the economists
have asserted, even though it involved them in logical
blunders, namely that money is rightly to be regarded as
part of the National Wealth?" The answer to this is
clear. It is true that the nation must act, and continue
indefinitely to act, as if it possessed more wealth than it
'''OC5 possess, by the aggregate purchasing power of its
money, but the important. thing is that this Virtual Wealth
does not exist. It is an imaginary negative quantity~ deficit or debt of wealth, subject neither to the laws of

140 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
conservation nor thermodynamics. But it is a quantity which
has reference to wealth and not to money. It is not the
amount of money people have that is of any real importance,
but the amount of wealth they are in a position to obtain
any time in the future on demand, and therefore go without
in the present, that is of importance. It is the quantity
of goods that the community abstains from possessing that
is definite, and the number of units of money this definite
quantity is worth is all the money, whatever that all
may be.
It is the virtual wealth which measures the value or
purchasing power of money, and not money which measures
the value of wealth.
Although the money value of the aggregate virtual
wealth is necessarily identical with the aggregate of the
money possessed by the community, this identity merely
obscures the real truth. The virtual wealth has, in fact,
very little to do with the quantity of money. True, it may
tend to change because people try to change their habits
owing to an inflation or deflation of the currency, but the
habits of a community are essentially conservative, so that
it can only change within comparatively small limits.
Whereas the quantity of money, on the other hand, is
absolutely and entirely arbitrary, and can theoretically be
made as small as or as great as the nation pleases without
any limit whatsoever. However large or small, the total
money is, of course, the money-worth of the virtual wealth,
so that if the latter does not change, the level of average
prices is proportional to the quantity of money and the
purchasing power of money is inversely proportional to the
quantity of money.
With this much preliminary description of the point of
view about money stressed in this work, we may revert to
what was termed the main thread the course of monetary
evolution has followed. It has been the substitution for
a money consisting of actual wealth possessed, a money
denoting wealth owed to but not possessed. To the individual the latter means, or should mean, that that individual

MONEY OLD AND MONEY NEW

141

has done some service for the community not yet repaid
in wealth. But to the community the significance of its
money is totally different. It means, since the repayment
of such services in wealth only transfers its debt from one
individual to another, that such debts need not be repaid
at all, and indeed can only be repaid by the community
itself obtaining possession of the money and destroying it.
These are the only kind of debts that are wholly beneficial
to the community, and, being instantly honoured by transfer
from one individual to another, so long as they are honoured
at an unchanging price-level they need not bear any interest
whatever, whether made of metal or paper. For money
interest is essentially payment for the privilege of being
allowed to defer the payment of a money debt. Let us now
proceed to the consideration of actual monetary systems.
SKETCH OF THE ORIGIN OF THE PRESENT SYSTEM.

Money, as an authorised token of the indebtedness of the
whole community to the individual possessing the token, is,
of course, a very ancient institution, and these tokens were
even sometimes quite devoid of value in themselves, apart
from the social convention of honouring them as legally
enforceable claims to actual wealth. In the token monies
of Athens and Sparta, between the tenth and fifth centuries
B.C., in which metal discs of no value were employed as
coins, the essential principle that the number of tokens
issued should be limited and publicly known was perfectly
appreciated. But no doubt the simplest communities
found difficulty in checking the unauthorised and fraudulent
imitation of the tokens. The connection with barter)
where commodities of equal value change hands, was
preserved in the precious metal money that still to
some extent persists. The principle underlying it was
perfectly correct to the principles of modern physical
science. Since wealth cannot be created out of nothing,
but is a product of human effort expended on the raw
material and sources of energy of the globe, no individual

142 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
should be able to manufacture a new money claim to wealth
out of nothing, and the purchaser should give up something
equal in value to (as difficult to come by as) that which he
so acquires. It is in this vital point that the modern
methods of multiplying claims to wealth fail.
But even more fatal to democracy has been its failure
to provide any proper authority and mechanism for the
making and issue of money, as and when it is required, to
keep pace with the growth of its wealth. National money
-whatever it is made of-does not bear, and never has
borne, interest, which is the raison d'etn for the issue of
most modern money. Whatever ends it may be supposed
to subserve, bank money is created primarily for that end,
and, what is worse, then decreated again when that end
is served. But a sovereign issued in the reign of George III
is now worth no more than when it was issued, and obeys
the ordinary law of the conservation of matter. It does
not mysteriously appear and as mysteriously disappear like
bank money. The whole expense of minting it, and of
maintaining it against loss of weight due to abrasion in use,
is borne by the State without charge to the user. In this
country the loss was to some extent made up by the issue
of silver coins worth, as bullion, only about half their face
value and of copper coins of no definite metal value ; but
the currency was safeguarded from debasement thereby
by limiting the validity of these silver tokens, as legal
payment for debt, to sums up to £2 and the copper tokens
only up to Is.
Although, by making the main coinage of gold, the holder
is given an equivalent in wealth for what the coin will
purchase, actually stringent regulations prohibited the de
facing of the coin and prevented its being used except as
a token of the communal indebtedness. In a community
in which mutual trust was not highly developed the precious
metal in the coins ensured their ready circulation, but
serves no other purpose so far as the internal currency is
concerned. They are really one form of token money.
According to our definition of wealth, gold and silver

MONEY OLD AND MONEY NEW

143

bullion are clearly wealth--so long as they serve the needs
of the community. Apart from their use in currency, they
are, and will probably always be, wealth to the jeweller,
who otherwise would have to search the earth, or pay others
for searching, for the raw material of his trade. If so,
they would still possess value as a store of wealth for
hoarding purposes. So that even if demonetised, though
their value would probably much decline, they would still
be wealth, in the second category, along with permanent
possessions and organs of production. Some of the complexities of the subject are due to this triple origin of the
value of gold and silver.
With the growth of productive power due to the
growth of science metal coinage ceased to be adequate,
although, if it had been still retained, it is doubtful whether
the consequent evils would have been greater than those
which have come upon us as a consequence of paper money
being substituted without the original principles of money
being preserved.
Though scientific methods have, especially in comparatively recent times, very greatly cheapened the processes
of winning gold and silver and have enabled very much
poorer ores to be worked at a profit, these metals cannot
as yet be made artificially at will. The supply of them has
not kept pace with the supply of those forms of wealth that
can be made by scientific methods, given the necessary
workers, to any reasonable extent required. As the result
of the Industrial Revolution and its secondary, but no less
important, consequence in making the produce of practically
the whole earth available everywhere by the use of mechanical transport, there should have occurred an immense fall
in the money price of commodities if the currency had been
restricted still to the precious metals, though possibly the
demand created for them would have so stimulated the
supply that the fall would have been only temporary.
Because, price being under the system a weight of gold
given for goods, if goods increase in abundance relatively
to gold, less of the latter than before exchanges for the same

144

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

goods. The price of the latter would therefore have fallen
gradually, and the relatively increasing value of gold in
goods would have stimulated the search for gold. But the
actual course of events was the rediscovery of the use of
credit or token money in the Western world.
KUBLA KHAN'S CURRENCY.

Paper money is in itself a fascinating study, and it is
perhaps worth while tracing its invention to at least one
of its origins in the East. Kubla Khan, the great Mogul
emperor, as Marco Polo records in his travels.! "had the
secret of alchemy to perfection, for he makes his money of
the bark of a mulberry-tree, and this they cut up into
something resembing paper, but black. ... Everyone takes
. them readily, for wherever a person shall go he will find
these pieces of paper current, and be able to transact all
business just as if it were gold." The Great Khan must
have arrived by intuition at many of the principles that we
are so slow to accept. He realised that the bulk of his
subjects had no need for gold for their internal currency,
but required only a medium of exchange, of definite and
constant purchasing power and safeguarded from counterfeiting, whereas for foreign trade the precious metals were
essential. Thus we read that all merchants from India
bringing gold or silver, or gems or pearls, were prohibited
from selling them except to the emperor, who paid a very
liberal price for them in his own paper notes without any
delay. The merchants found them vastly lighter to carry
forth than gold, and bought with them whatever they liked
anywhere within the empire. But the nobles, or indeed
anyone else soever, having need of precious metals or gems
for girdles or the like, could always buy as much as they
wished from the emperor with the paper money. The
first issue was in 1260-1287, and some of this paper is still
extant, and can be seen occasionally in museums.
1 Travels of Marco Polo, edited by Cordier, translated by Yule.
John
Murray, 1903, vol. i, book ii, p. 423.

MONEY OLD AND MONEY NEW

145

THE ORIGIN OF MODERN PAPER MONEY.

Very different is the history of its rediscovery in the
West. The kings, in need of gold and silver as much, no
doubt, as the Great Khan, used in emergency to borrow it,
sometimes without the formality of the owners' consent, so
that it became extremely risky to deposit it in the Tower
or other stronghold provided for the purpose. In these
circumstances the goldsmiths obligingly acted as caretakers
for the spare cash of the merchants and others, and in
course of time developed into bankers. Holding the stocks
of money of their various customers, they were loth to allow
such vast sums of "wealth" to remain "idle" and
" barren," and they lent a safe proportion to reliable people
at interest, knowing by experience that not all their depositors would want all their money back on the same day.
But when merchants with mutual dealings happened to
deposit with the same goldsmith, they found it convenient
to issue a written order to the latter to pay one another out
of and into their mutual accounts, rather than themselves
to draw out the money for the purpose. Thus the modern
cheque originated, whereby, instead of remitting cash to
pay an account, a cheque, or order to the banker to pay
from the depositor's account, is sent.
Such an order, or cheque, as a substitute for money,has
two sources of uncertainty. First, it may be worthless
because of the insolvency of the signatory, and secondly,
because of the insolvency of the bank. The first of these
effectually prevents cheques from passing current as money,
save, possibly, among a few to whom the signatory is
personally known to be solvent. But the ability or otherwise
of a bank to meet its liabilities is much more widely known,
and is a matter of common repute among the business
fraternity. Hence, among merchants personally unknown
to one another, the practice arose of sending the goldsmith's receipt for the deposited gold. This eliminated the
first uncertainty, and such receipts would circulate as
money everywhere where the goldsmith was known to be
10

146 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
reputable. In this way the bank-note originated. The
depositor obtained receipts for definite sums of gold, with
which in course of time the community got to be familiar.
The receipts circulated as money as easily and more conveniently than the gold itself. At this stage there was the gold
behind the note. It was a promise of the banker to pay the
holder of the receipt or note the sum of gold specified on
demand in exchange for the note.
THE DISPLACEMENT OF NATIONAL MONEY BY
BANK MONEY.

The goldsmith, now turned banker, found by experience
that he was in permanent continuous possession of a stock
of gold far greater than he was ever called upon to payout.
So long as a bank-note circulated, the gold it was a receipt
for remained unused in his safe. But there was a far more
important effect produced by the rise in popularity of the
cheque system. The banker's own clients, when they
issued to one another orders to pay, or cheques, clearly
did not in the least affect the amount of gold he held. Their
cheques merely transferred ownership of money from one
of the banker's clients to another. The settlement of
mutual indebtedness between those banking with the same
bank by the cheque system is merely an affair of bookkeeping, which goes farther than the bank-note and dispenses
altogether with money. The money is thus freed for use
over again by the banker, who can, and does, lend it to
reputable producers for definite periods, to be repaid with
interest out of the proceeds of wealth-producing enterprise.
But, again, the money itself need not be used for this, as
a cheque-book serves the same purpose everywhere," so
long as the bank's reputation for solvency remains good.
The original money is thus used over and over again, and
out of an original quantity of wealth claims to many times
1 The borrower simply" overdraws his account," but the banker poste
to the borrower's credit the sum in question, and on the other side of his
ledger he poste it to his own credit 88 owing to him from the borrower.

MONEY OLD AND MONEY NEW

147

this amount of wealth in the possession of other quite
innocent and unsuspecting people are created literally by
the stroke of a pen.
This is the pons asinorum of banking, and at this point
its apologists always seem to be distracted from the principles that money is supposed to subserve in a community
to an ex parte defence of the system. It certainly does seem
odd to a tyro to discover that the law proceeds with the
utmost severity against the fraudulent counterfeiter for
uttering new money tokens, but allows the banks in effect
to create it wholesale to lend at interest by these methods,
which is a far more profitable business and infinitely more
serious in its consequences to the general community than
counterfeiting. To any other age it would have been the
most obvious form of treason against the State.
THE PRIVATE ISSUE OF MONEY;

A CHANCE RESULT

OF THE BANK CHEQUE SYSTEM.

No doubt there are still many people, if not the majority,
who will be frankly incredulous that money vastly exceeding
in amount the total national money can be, and is created
and destroyed by the moneylender with a stroke of the
pen. How frequently does one still read in the Press that
the banks can only loan their customers spare money !
Most people still think of what money once was, " a public
instrument owned and controlled by the State." They
naturally conclude that those who essay the thankless task
of looking at the question from the national standpoint
cannot understand it themselves. For this incredulity
there is, however, no justification.
The main facts are in no dispute. They are set forth
clearly in all works on money. If the uninstructed reader
wishes to read the best attempted apology for the system
he is recommended to the works on the subject by Mr.
Hartley Withers. The point of view is that of the enthusiastic financial publicist, who sees the great rise of prosperity
not in terms of invention, diligence and energy, but in
terms of money. and to whom the marvellous growth of

148 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
recent times is the effect rather than the cause of the
wonderful banking system, particularly the British banking
system, not to say the London banking system.
A few paragraphs may be cited 1 :
"The broad conclusion arrived at is that banking
deposits come into being to a small extent by cash paid
into banks across the counter, to a larger but still comparatively small extent by purchases of securities by the banks
which create book credits, and chiefly by loans from the
banks which also create book credits.
"There is nothing alarming in the conclusion, though.
people who have been accustomed to regard bank deposits
as so much cash paid in are sometimes startled when the
other side of the matter is put to them, and feel that banking
credit is a kind of questionable conspiracy between banks
and their customers. A little reflection shows that it is
a beautiful piece of evenly working mechanism, by which
coin is economised and a perfect currency is provided with
extraordinary ease and cheapness. Nor need any sense of
disillusionment be felt when it is realised that bank deposits,
in so far as they are borrowed, are evidences of indebtedness
quite as much as of wealth.
" Everybody knows that in all long-established, wellordered and industrious communities vast stores of wealth
are accumulated; and even if they could be heaped up in
banks and expressed in figures nothing would be gained by
the information. But the contemplation of this mass of
indebtedness, and of the cheque currency with which it is
passed from hand to hand, is novel, stimulating and unique.
It is a wondrous example of human ingenuity applied to
the cheapening and furtherance of trade, finance and
speculation. There is nothing quite like it anywhere else,
and its development has only been rendered possible by the
confidence, based on solid experience, of the majority of
Englishmen in one another's commercial probity, and readiness to carry out a contract at all costs.
"The only defect in the system is its perfection."
1

The Meaning of Money, chap. v, "The Manufacture of Money."

MONEY OLD AND MONEY NEW

149

He warns the uninitiated that bank deposits include
deposits proper, in which the money is really deposited and
cannot be taken out except after a stipulated time, and
current accounts in which the money can be drawn at will
by cheque. He then shows how the greater part are
created by loans. He takes the latest (1909) available
balance-sheets of half a dozen of the biggest joint stock
bankers and puts their figures together, with the result that
"the greater part of the banks' deposits is thus seen to
consist, not of cash paid in, but of credits borrowed. For
every loan makes a deposit, and since our balance-sheet
shows 180! millions of loans, 180! out of the 249 millions
of deposits have been created by loans."
So capable an authority at least must be respected even
by those who still pretend to believe that the banks only
lend their customers' unused money. Indeed, to some
people it seems sufficient to prove this that a bank's balancesheet balances. Whereas, of course, when a bank credit
is created, both sides of the balance-sheet are written up
to the same extent. It is not merely the old lady of fable
who overdrew her account and sent her banker a cheque
for the amount. Her misfortune was merely that she was
not her own banker.
The following quotation from The Times, December 9,
1925, p. 21, City Notes column, should convince the
most sceptical: " . . . Issumg houses and underwriters
must remember that capital available for investment is
not, like bank credit, a thing that can be manufactured
by a book-keeping entry; it can only be provided by
genuine savings."
THE MORATORIUM AND AFTER.

At the commencement of the War the ugly fact of the
Moratorium needed some public apologia, and we read
in a work by Mr. Withers published in 1914: "It
came upon us like a thunderbolt from a clear sky.
At the end of July 1914 any citizen of London who was

150 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
asked what a moratorium meant would probably have
answered that there was not such a word. Possibly he
might have said that it was a large extinct woolly beast
with big tusks. If he was exceptionally well informed in
matters of finance he would have replied that it was some
sort of device used in economically backward countries for
blurring the distinction between meum and teum. On the
2nd of August we had a moratorium on bills of exchange.
On the 6th of August we had a general moratorium.
. . . It was an unpleasant string of surprises, but it was
not brought about by any internal weakness in the English
banking system. The fury of the tempest was such that
no credit system could possibly have stood up against it.
In fact, as will be shown, the chief reason for the suddenness
and fullness of the blow that fell on London was nothing
else but her own overwhelming strength. She was so
strong and so lonely in her strength that her strength
overcame her." 1
And at the close of the same work:
" Summing up the effects of the War, as far as it has
gone, on Lombard Street, we may confidently claim that
they have given a striking proof of the resourcefulness and
adaptability of the Bank of England, the prudent and
successful courage of the Government in pledging the
national credit in order to maintain our trade, and the
masterful power of England's wealth." 2
In Bankers and Credit, published after the War, when
the country is experiencing some of the consequences of
its improvised efforts to take some small part in its own
finances, it is the politicians, never the banks, that are
to blame:
"Political rulers have lately shown amazing capacity
for creating chaos in the world of banking. Under the
stress of war they seized and warped for their own purposes
the banking and currency system of this country and of
all other countries engaged in it, and of many of those
1

War and Lombard Street, Hartley Withers, 1914, chap. i, .. The

Moratorium."
J

Ibid., p. 131.

MONEY OLD AND MONEY NEW

151

that were only affected indirectly, with the result that the
system which had been brought to something very near
to perfection is now
" Like sweet bells jangled out of tune and rarsh,"

a melancholy mockery of its former beauty and efficiency."
The book ends on the proper functions of the politician:
"The gold standard frees us from muddling with our
money by politicians, has worked right well in the past
and may do so again, whenever the politicians succeed in
doing their proper job, of giving us peace and security
and confidence and good-will." 1
Whereas most people who have any experience of responsible administration would probably agree that an administrative Government without any real power over finance,
and with that power located elsewhere, can be little more
than a figure-head. "The king is dead. Long live the
king! "

THE CHANGE FROM THE OLD TO THE NEW" MONEY."
At this stage it may be helpful to revert once again to
the critical point that the banking system, without uttering
a single false coin, can and does multiply the money of the
country for usury many times.
At first the legislature were strongly opposed to the
banks issuing bank-notes. The general feeling of the public
was intuitively against any form of credit money, unbacked
by the equivalent of gold. The early State interference
with banking seems to have been directed rather towards
the object of weakening the banks and making the business
precarious both to the banker and the depositors than with
any intelligible object. It has been urged very ably 2
that the whole evils of the Industrial Revolution arose
from State interference with banking, and that it is as
essential for banking to be as free from restriction and as
1

I

Bankers and Credit, 1924.
Industrial Justice through Banking Reform. Henry Meulen, 1917.

152 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
open to competition as any other form of commerce.
Historically, it is claimed, the instincts of the banker has
been uniformly social, and that banking has become what
it has through these instincts being thwarted.
The criticisms of the system in this work must not be
taken to reflect upon the bankers as practical business men,
but are directly to the theory of credit upon which the
system has been based. Nor is it suggested that there is
the slightest taint of illegality in their actions, whatever
may be thought of the way our ostensible rulers have
abdicated their functions and left the country in the lurch.
The forces at work in the Industrial Revolution were gigantic,
and none, probably, understood them. The power of
increasing production conferred by the harnessing of
mechanical power called for a means of increasing the
currency and economising in the use of gold. But the
Governments of those days would neither allow the banks
to do it in their own way, nor openly and frankly do it
themselves by the issue of a national paper money.
In this situation the invention of the cheque system
practically solved the problem. It has virtually displaced
the bank-note and relegated to quite a minor role the money
authorised and issued by the State. It has altered the very
nature of money itself without the public and the legislature
as yet realising what has occurred.
It is characteristic of the dizzy virtues of compound
interest that they are not at all dizzy at the start. It is
only after they have been in operation a certain time that
they show any disposition to become marvellous and to
transcend the bounds of the physically possible. But now
that the increments of indebtedness arc mounting up, it
is hardly a sufficient defence of the system to say that it
served the country well in the past, and only needs to be
left alone to work further miracles in the future. A single
grain of corn doubled as many times as there are squares
on a chess-board represents more corn than the present
population of the world could consume in a period longer
than that covered by the records of history, whereas

MONEY OLD AND MONEY NEW

153

doubled only half that number of times it would scarcely
suffice to give London a square meal. This means that a
system might show no signs of breakdown for a century
and yet become absolutely impossible during the course
of the next.
Reverting to the transition from the old to the new
system, before banking started there was a definite amount
of gold and silver coinage only. The first step on the
downward path, from money for use to money for usury,
was the power conferred upon the Bank of England to issue
bank-notes to a limited extent in return for the loan of
money to the Government-a power they still possess under
the Bank Charter Act of 1844. Their uncovered note
issue was then limited to £M14, beyond which they were
required to keep gold in reserve. The whole intentions of
the latter Act, which is still the law-namely, to prevent
the issue of paper money uncovered by gold-were frustrated
by the development of the cheque system. The latter
effectively killed the bank-note as a form of currency by
establishing a much more insidious and uncontrollable
form. It is only the latter that needs any further
elucidation.
THE PYRAMIDING OF CREDIT.

As the banking and cheque system developed and people
got into the habit of depositing their money more and more
in banks and using cheques, in lieu of cash, to settle their
accounts, the banker at first would, as we have seen, always
possess a much larger stock of gold and silver than he
required to meet such demands for cash as the public still
made. It is therefore clear that the banker can safely
lend part of his depositors' money; but what is not so clear
is that he can lend many times as much as the whole nation
possesses-in fact, create it to lend at will.
Before the War it was considered" safe" for the banker
to keep some £15 per £100 of cash against 'deposits. That
is, for every £100 deposited £15 of cash sufficed for the
small cash demands, most of the depositors' purchasing

154 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
power being exercised by cheque. We may take this
15 per cent for purpose of illustration only. It is doubtful
if as much has been necessary for a very long time.
Now the whole secret of the system is contained in the
fact that when a bank creates a loan and lends £100 to a
borrower, to do so it need only have £15 of its depositors'
money, or whatever the" safe" ratio may be.
Thus, dealing throughout with averages, against the
original depositor of £100, £15 of legal tender must be kept
in the till, leaving £85 available to be lent to a borrower.
It is true this borrower might demand it in cash, but, on
the average for him no less than for the original depositor,
only 15 per cent of cash, or £12 15s. is necessary, leaving
£72 5s. free to be lent to a second borrower. Of this 15 per
cent, or £10 17s., again suffices to be retained, leaving
£61 8s. available to be lent to a third borrower. So it goes
on until each £100 of original cash becomes a total of
£666 13s. 4d. Of this £100 are due to the depositor and
£566 13s. 4d. is owing to the bank from the borrowers.
The borrowers have to deposit with the bank acceptable
collateral securities, which, if they default, the bank can
sell, or try to sell, to recoup itself. But such securities are
usually not sold. The bank charges interest upon the
fictitious loan. At a modest 5 per cent bank rate the
interest on £566 13s. 4d. is £28 6s. 8d. per year, which is,
it must be admitted, not a bad return on £100 which the
original " depositor" has not lent.
If the truth were known it would probably be found
that this estimate is altogether too modest.' At least
since, if not before, the War the figures suggest rather a
7 per cent "safe" limit than 15 per cent. On this basis
a client depositing £100 of cash in current account enables
the bank to loan £1,330, which at 5 per cent brings in
£66 10s. 9d. per annum.
1 Hugo Bilgram tJournal oJ Political Economy, xxix, November, 1921)
takes the total of cash reserves held by deposit and reserve banks in
the United States as not less than 8 per cent of the total deposit currency,
and of this 40 per cent must be gold.

MONEY OLD AND MONEY NEW

155

It is therefore not surprising that banks are usually
so ready to keep their depositors' accounts for nothing.
Economists, in their analysis of how a man gets his income
and how he spends it, regard this interest apparently as
payment for services in banking, and have never to the
author's knowledge tried to assess its cost to the community.
Clearly if they were deprived of these powers, the banks
would have to charge their customers for the trouble of
keeping their accounts like other businesses. But whether
such a system of economics that overlooks the virtual
wealth of the community and treats it as the property of
the bankers rather than of the nation-a mere perquisite
for the performance of certain clerical duties-is of much
help to the nation's government is another question.
PUZZLE-FIND THE MONEY.

Still, many features in connection with the process of
credit are likely not to be wholly clear
and will repay careful examination. So let us trace so far
as possible the change from the old system, when all money
was legal tender-gold and silver money-to the modern
system, when only a small proportion is. It is necessary
to remember that those who are accommodated with loans
from the bank really need goods of one form or another.
They do not pay interest charges on borrowed money to
hoard it. They very quickly exchange the money with
others for goods. Once this has happened all distinction
between the two kinds of money-genuine money owned
by owners and bank money created to lend-disappears.
All is then genuine money lawfully owned by its owners.
A man who has sold goods to another for money created
by a bank has as valid a right in law to the ownership of
that money as though it were genuine, whereas a man
who is so unfortunate as to become the possessor of a
counterfeit coin has his claim to wealth decreated into the
Absolute Nothing so soon as the coin is detected and nailed
to the counter. Property in wealth does not pass on
cc pyramiding"

156 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
delivery, but property in money does. The owner of stolen
goods may recover them even from an innocent receiver of
them, but the innocent receiver of money is confirmed by
the law in his ownership, even though the money can be
proved to have been originally stolen from someone else.
Even if it could be shown that the banks have broken the
letter of the law in creating money, as they have certainly
driven a coach-and-four through its spirit and intention,
it does not in the least affect the conclusion that, for all
practical purposes, there is no difference between genuine
money deposits and those created by loan. Each is a valid
claim to the wealth of the community.
This was certainly a definite stage in the author's own
efforts to understand the problem. Thus one may be
tempted to think, when one reads that, of the total amount
of bank deposits, three-fourths or four-fifths have been
created by loans, that only one-fourth or one-fifth is really
money genuinely belonging to the depositors, and that the
rest is borrowed from the bank and owed to the bank at
the same time and by the same people. This is not so.
The people who owe the money no longer have it; they
have for the most part exchanged it for goods. True they
are continuously repaying it, but, as continuously, the
bank are granting new loans to take the place of those so
repaid. Practically the whole of the deposits are genuine
claims to money lawfully owned by the individual depositors,
but the money they claim has no existence.
MONEY IMAGINED TO EXIST FOR THE PURPOSE OF
BEARING INTEREST.

We have thus reached a very interesting conclusion: that
whereas the old form of metal money could not and did
not bear interest to the owner, and could only bear interest
when he parted with the ownership of it and lent it to
another, the new form of credit money-at least prior to
the War, which saw the birth of the Treasury note-has
no existence, but is imagined to exist and lent to borrowers

MONEY OLD AND MONEY NEW

157

as though it existed for the purpose of bearing interest.
This non-existent money passes by sale into the hands of
those who give up something in exchange for it, and who
now therefore own what is not in existence. Absurd as this
description may appear, it is none the less undeniable. Let
everyone with money that is his very own-borrowed
from or lent by nobody-present himself at the bank at
the same time and ask for it. The proof of the statement
whether this money does or does not exist will then be
apparent. As everyone knows, they would be lucky if
they got 2s. in the £. Even if the banks do keep 15 per cent
of their liabilities in cash, they would only get 3s. in the £.
As the owners of it have not got the money they own, and
as the banks have not got it, and as the people who borrowed
it have not got it, where is it 1 Obviously nowhere. It
is imagined to exist for the purpose of charging interest
upon it.
Those who have followed the earlier exposition of the
Principle of Virtual Wealth will have no difficulty in recognising money as wealth imagined to exist for the purpose
of lawfully obtaining it on demand as and when required.
But that is old-fashioned money. The modern bank money
carries the process of imagination one stage farther in
imagining money itself to exist for the purpose of lending
it and charging interest upon it.
Purely fictitious
money, which the nation has not authorised the issue of, is
fictitiously lent without anyone giving it up, and then
creates perfectly genuine deposits and legal claims upon
the community's market for the supply of wealth, indistinguishable in every respect from those the nation has
authorised.

How THE COMMUNITY IS ROBBED.
It is easy in criticising the monetary system to give a
false impression of what it really was. Though by the
creation of money and the inflation of the currency by bank
credit the community as a whole are robbed of the wealth

158 WEALTH. VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
equivalent to the new creation, it must not be supposed
that the banks ever had or claimed any legal title to the
ownership of thernoney so created. They got the permanent
use of it and the ownership of the interest it was issued for.
The industries to which the money was lent got from the
community for nothing-at the expense of the general
purchasing power of money-the wealth they purchased
with the new money, but had to restore it when the loan
was repaid and the credit cancelled. In practice it was
never more than temporarily cancelled; it was renewed to
other borrowers on the first opportunity. So that a continuous succession of different people without money were
empowered by the banks to acquire wealth temporarily
from the community to which they were not entitled and
for which the whole community paid. The banks traded
on a monetary capital they created themselves, but made no
pretensions to possessing. If they were wound up and their
businesses discontinued all of the excess of their liabilities
over their assets would have to be made good by those to
whom they have lent money. The quantity of money
would be reduced then to, say, one-sixth of the present
amount or less. Prices," in the end," would be reduced
to one-sixth unless a corresponding quantity of genuine
national money were issued to take the place of the fictitious
money destroyed, though, as Mr. Keynes has sagely observed
in a similar connection, "in the end we are all dead." If
this were not done, the last loan to be recalled would have
to be paid in money worth six times that at which it was
issued, and the average for the whole amount of the loans
would be over twice their initial purchasing power. This
is a somewhat vital distinction between real money and the
phantom money being described. With the repayment of
a genuine loan the quantity of money is not affected. With
the repayment of fictitious loans there is so much less money
in existence, so that repayment becomes increasingly difficult as it is enforced. If issued in boom and cancelled
in slump they are repaid in units of money worth more
than when borrowed.

MONEY OLD AND MONEY NEW

159

SOME MONETARY DATA.

Very few people outside the banks know much about
the amount of money in the country and how it is accounted
for. Even Mr. Hartley Withers says:
"Banking statements and balance-sheets were always
designed rather to veil discreetly the modesty of our monetary institutions than to let the full light of day fall upon
the beauties of their figures and proportions. Since the
War this has been more than ever so. Much of the
information that used to be made public has been
withheld." 1
H. W. Macrosty 2 complains that:
"The published figures regarding our banking transactions, which are certainly abundant and are commonly considered to be sufficient, are neither clear nor sufficient...."
On the important ratio between real deposits, not
capable of being drawn upon except after due notice--or
"time deposits "-and money in current account he
says:
"It is not improbable that the proportion of time
deposits in British banks is one-fifth of the whole amount
of deposits, as is the case with the 800 chief banks of the
Federal Bank System of the United States."
The Rt. Hon. Reginald McKenna, ex-Chancellor of the
Exchequer and Chairman of the London Joint City and
Midland Bank, has given the public a good deal of information. Speaking on January 29, 1920, he estimated the
spending power of the public as gauged by the total amount
of bank deposits, added to the total amount of currency
in circulation, as £Ml,198 in 1914 and £M2,693 in 1920.
The currency held by the banks in June 1914 was £M75
and in December 1919 £M191. He estimated the increase
in bank deposits over the period as £Ml,230, of which
increase he attributed £Ml,1l4 to bank loans. Macrosty
Bankers and Credit, p. 4.
H. W. Macrosty, Journal Statistical Society, March 1922, vol. lxv,
p.177.
1

I

160 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
estimated that the currency in the hands of the public
amounted to £MI28, and in the hands of the banks £M75
in June 1914, whilst at the end of 1919 that in the hands
of the public was £M393 and in the hands of the banks
£M116. The two estimates are considerably at variance as
regards the 1920 figures.
But it would seem perfectly safe to conclude that some
two thousand million pounds sterling, ranking in all respects
equal to real money, is created by the banks and bears
interest at the bank rate, and that an annual toll of the
order of one hundred million pounds a year is extracted
from the national revenue by this means. Nor is there
any risk worthy the name, for the loans are all no doubt
well covered by collateral securities which would be sold
up if the debtor defaulted; or, if that were not possible,
a moratorium would be declared, as in August 1914.
These data are of the utmost importance to the subject,
and it is a great pity that they are not authoritatively and
less ambiguously available to the public. It is interesting
to know that the monetary value of the virtual wealth of
the community was about £Ml,200 before the War and
about £M2,700 in 1920. One of the few data that is accurately known is the amount of the cheques, bills, etc.,
annually cleared through the Bankers' Clearing House,
London. In 1924 it came to the stupendous total of nearly
£M40,000, which is three times the total of 1913 and four
times that of 1900.
It will be observed that the annual sums expended by
cheques, etc., amount to some fifteen times the total amount
of Bank Deposits, and no less than one hundred times the
currency in the hands of the public. The amount of the
latter is astonishingly small, in comparison with the population, amounting to only some £6 or £7 per head, and even
the inflated totality of Bank Deposits is only about £40 per
head. Considerations of this character cause the economists
to dismiss contemptuously as an illusion any scheme of
social reform by "tinkering with the currency." If we
mean by that printing continuously ever more and more

MONEY OLD AND MONEY NEW

161

mO,ney, against expenditure, the reason is obvious. Wealth
is consumed, but money goes on for ever. Apart from a
very small loss, possibly, due to fire or similar accidents,
a coin or note once put into circulation goes on circulating
until it is withdrawn from circulation. £1 purchases not
i 1, but il, every month or so, for ever after, on the average.
Here, again, the average "time of circulation" is very
imperfectly known and has been variously estimated at
different periods of history, but one month seems a sort
of probable guess. One might as well try to estimate the
velocity of a stream which flows in some parts through
broad lakes and at others over foaming cataracts, most of
which has no physical existence, but disappears mysteriously
underground in one place and, at a different time, reappears
in another.
MODERN MONEY A NEW INSTITUTION.

These considerations may serve to show how little is
known as to the facts of the existing monetary system, but
they are probably sufficient to give a general idea of the
order of quantity involved, and, in so far as the evils
afflicting society are monetary in ofigin, to suggest reform.
The foregoing brief analysis of the origin of modern money
reveals that a complete and unsuspected alteration has
come over the very nature of it with the discovery of financial
devices for economising the use of currency. It is necessary
therefore to regard as it an entirely new phenomenon and
to go back to first principles in examining it. Almost by
accident, certainly as a by-product unforeseen when the
cheque system originated, the power of issuing and withdrawing currency has passed entirely beyond the control
of the nation into the hands of the banker. If anyone
claims that this power is exercised, according to a properly
thought-out and intelligible system, to distribute the
abundant wealth a modern community is empowered by
scientific methods to produce in order that the members
may obtain wealth for consumption, let him look around.
11

162 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
The money is now issued primarily for usury. Even to
the most convinced individualist this must seem to be
pushing the principle of liberty rather far. If some people
are to have the right of issuing new money, why not the
nation as a whole, as and when required 1
The financier points to the achievements of science in
the past century as a tribute to the soundness and adaptability of the British monetary and banking systems. At
the best they must be regarded as a temporary makeshift,
extemporised to meet a particular phase of the rapid progress
in the materialistic sciences, and, now that that phase is past,
obviously unsuitable for the one that has succeeded it. The
continued coexistence of unemployment and poverty in a
scientific era is its sufficient condemnation.
The system allows a nation with only at most some
£M500 of money in existence to lend to the extent of some
£M2,OOO, and to spend to the extent of some £M40,000 a
year by cheque alone. Especially since the great banks
have combined-over 90 per cent of the business is in the
hands of one group known as The Big Five-the purchasing
power exercised by cheque exerts no very great influence
upon the magnitude of the "deposits, for the cheque
merely debits one account and credits another at the same
time, save for the small part actually cashed, without
affecting the aggregate. Yet most people still believe that
the banks only lend the monies their clients are not using.
To any business man a knowledge of the truth ought to
be sufficient to condemn the system according to the canons
of ordinary competitive business. Where else in the whole
realm of human activity is it possible to create capital by
an act of imagination and to derive from its supposed
existence a perennial revenue, just as though it were real
wealth put to productive use 1
We have seen (p. 84) how in cultivated society the
conception of a periodical receipt has forced its way in
and overpowered the conception of a realized amount and
(p. 99) how we regard our annual income as the really
important consideration, dividing it by the rate of interest
II

MONEY OLD AND MONEY NEW

163

for the time being to arrive at its aggregate value. What,
then, in "cultivated society" is the difference between the
utterer of false coin and the banks 1 The one pretends to
the ownership of a fraudulent realised amount, while the
other does not, but will assuredly fight for, as their own
property when challenged, the periodical receipt derived
from an imaginary realised amount.
BANKERS AS RULERS.

But this is only a minor question in comparison with
the effect it has in making the banker the real ruler of the
nation. Bankers certainly may be trusted to know their
own business, but it is not the business of government.
The prerogative of issuing money has down the ages been
regarded as the essential prerogative of government.
Possibly it is the only prerogative that is essential. Whereas
a banker is not responsible for the government of the
community, but for the interests of his own clients.
Government by banker is essentially, and in its purest
form, government in the interests of the propertied at the
expense of the property-less. Better, indeed, that the
knowledge of science had been buried, like that of finance,
under a mystic jargon in the keeping of a secret hierarchy
than that it should exploit and enslave rather than liberate
the poor.
" Whose image and superscription is this 1" The coins
and Treasury notes still bear the imprint Georqiu« V. D.G.
Britt. Omn. Rex, but the vast bulk of the currenoy omits
the first word preceding the big five. So that one is
reminded of the schoolboy's version of the scriptural quotation: "He said, ' Bring me a penny.' And they brought
him a penny. And he looked at the penny and said,
, Whose miserable subscription is this 1 ' "

CHAPTER VIII

THE PURCHASING POWER OF MONEY
GOLD-VALUE AND GOODS-VALUE.

THE task of trying to understand how money is multiplied
by means of bank credit-apart altogether from the ethics
of the transaction-is, however, simple in comparison with
the task of trying to determine exactly what, under the
system, fixed the total quantity of money in a country,
and to this extent its value or purchasing power. We
have seen that this quantity, whatever it may be, expresses
the monetary value of the virtual wealth of the community.
It is simple to visualise the latter as the aggregate of wealth
of all the kinds required in living, which the aggregate
individuals of the community abstain from buying, though
able to do so. Or, as the individuals themselves would look
at it, that part of their total possession they have to retain
in the form of money to carry on their business and domestic
affairs. Regarded as what the money would be used to
purchase, it is probably a very definite and conservative
amount, growing with the number of people in the community and their material prosperity or income, affected,
but only very gradually, by changes in financial and banking
methods and habits, altered, but reluctantly and only
temporarily, by changes in the price-level or purchasing
power of money, but a fairly definite quantity and a very
good gauge or index of national well-being and prosperity.
If, as in this country before the War, the money is kept
on a gold basis by being exchangeable on demand for gold
coinage, and if gold can be freely imported and exported
at a price fixed by law, minted into sovereigns or melted

THE PURCHASING POWER OF MONEY

165

back into bullion as required, the purchasing power of the
money is kept constant in terms of gold, though not in
terms of goods in general, which is the true measure of the
virtual wealth. If we suppose the latter does not change,
and the value of gold relative to goods in general falls, we
shall have a rise of the general level of prices, and, conversely, a fall, if the value of gold appreciates with reference to goods in general. So on a gold basis we express
virtual wealth which is a fairly intelligible and constant
quantity in terms of daily life and its necessities, as a
variable quantity of gold, the exchange value of which in
terms of goods is one of the most elusive and little understood
factors in human experience. We may think we can analyse
it and understand it as it operates and has operated in any
one country-as, for example, in this country-only to find
that, just as a change comes over the nature of money
when we consider nations rather than individuals, so a
change comes over gold as international money when we
consider not one country, but the whole world. Concerned
with its outgoings and incomings between one country and
the rest of the world, we overlook that, though the general
level of prices is equalised as among countries on a gold
basis, we are still as far off as ever from determining what
that price level may be and what, in fact, determines it.
But, the reader may inquire, does it greatly matter? Certainly if there were no debts, or none of more than a few
weeks' or months' duration, and no traditional ideas as to
the magnitude of salaries, wages, etc., it would not matter
so much; but in a world which is one inextricable tangle
of more or less permanent mutual individual, national
and international indebtednesses and contracts nothing can
possibly matter much more. In the following quotation
we have the economist at his best, with cold scientific
precision and crystal clearness setting forth principles it
would scarcely be politic economy to apply to problems
nearer home, as they are operating in a foreign country :
"If we look ahead, averting our eyes from the ups and
downs which can make and unmake fortunes in the mean-

166 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
time, the level of the franc is going to be settled in the long
run not by speculation or the balance of trade, or even the
outcome of the Ruhr adventure, but by the proportion of
his earned income which the French taxpayer will permit
to be taken from him to pay the claims of the French
reniier, The level of the franc exchange will continue to fall
until the commodity-value of the francs due to the rentier
has fallen to a proportion of the national income, which
accords with the habits and mentality of the country." 1
It would perhaps not be untrue to generalise this to
explain the world-wide phenomenon of currency depreciation through the ages. If we look ahead, averting our
eyes from the haphazard discoveries of gold that can make
and unmake fortunes, and the irregular growth of knowledge and invention, the purchasing power of money is
settled in the long run neither by science, finance nor trade,
but by the proportion of his earned income the worker
permits to be taken from him by the rentier. It will continue to fall until the commodity value of money due to the
rentier falls to that proportion of the national income which
accords with the habits and mentality of the growing world.

How THE GOLD-VALUE OF MONEY WAS MAINTAINED.
Quite briefly we must notice the ordinary explanation
of the method by which in this country before the War
the value of money was kept constant with reference to
gold.
The monetary system before the War was based on
gold, in the sense that the money could always be exchanged
for gold coins on demand, and these, at a definite invariable
rate fixed by the Bank Charter Act, for gold bullion for
export, to pay for any balance of goods imported from
foreign countries over those exported to them. For foreign
trade is at bottom necessarily, in the first instance, barter
still. With more settled political conditions and the growth
of mutual confidence it became unnecessary, in order to
1

J. M. Keynes, Monetary Re/orm, 1923, p. 73.

THE PURCHASING POWER OF MONEY 167
secure the circulation of money, that it should be made of
gold, and the mere power of being able to demand gold
in exchange sufficed. So that, although still largely used
in minor transactions, metal money or cash became relegated to a small proportion of all that now functions as
money in the community.
In a report to the House of Commons on the crisis in
1857 one of the leading bankers stated that, in his house,
specie entered into transactions little more than 2 per cent,
and in the case of other banks to only O'25 per cent. Naturally in retail trades cash is used to a much greater extent
than in wholesale trades.!
But the power of the public to demand gold-then the
only legal tender for large amounts-and the legal necessity
for the banker to supply it or go out of business, put the
onus of seeing that there was a sufficiency of gold in the
country upon the banker rather than on the Government.
The vast superstructure of bank credit was prevented
from depreciating the currency in terms of gold, and could
only be expanded as fast as the community increased its
virtual wealth (reckoned in terms of gold) by the following automatically acting mechanism: If too much money
were created so that prices rose, the power of demanding
gold in exchange for money, though normally useless to
the ordinary citizen, was of great importance to those
engaged in foreign trade. Though the price of every
other commodity had risen, that of gold could not, being
kept constant by law. So that the cheapest way of settling
foreign debts was to export the equivalent of gold rather
than of any other goods. This reduced the amount of
gold legal tender in the country, so that the banker, to
maintain solvency, had to cancel credits to many times
the amount of gold coin melted and exported, and by thus
reducing prices in the home market stop the drain of gold.
1 For the United States the figures given by Professor Fisher are,
for 1896, 14 per cent money and 91 per cent cheque; for 1909, 9 per
cent money and 91 per cent cheque. Credit money is growing rapidly
in the States, but has not attained yet to the same dominating position
as here. (Purchasing Power of Money, 1922, p. 318.)

168 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
Hence it became necessary for him to contract credit. He
attempted to get his clients to do so themselves voluntarily
by raising the bank-rate of interest, but, if this did not
suffice.! he arbitrarily called in loans already granted.
This destroyed money in circulation as literally as the granting of credit in the first instance created it, and by lowering
the quantity of money "in the end" lowered prices in
proportion. We need not at this stage do more than
touch on the mechanism of the process. To go into the
ethics of the question and trace out the arbitary losses
and risks it imposes upon perfectly innocent and defenceless people, doing their best according to their lights to
serve the needs of the community, would take us too far afield.
But it must not be too hastily concluded, as has often
been done, that the free market in gold at a fixed price,
which this country offered to the world, was a mistaken
policy, or that foreign traders were acting unpatriotically
in draining the country of its gold in time of need, forcing
up the rate of interest and condemning those whose loans
were called in often to bankruptcy and ruin. The foreign
trader is merely the unwitting instrument for enforcing
an unpleasant necessity.f Foreign trade is at basis barter,
and is paid for in goods, sometimes in securities or claims
to wealth in the future, never by money, which is a claim
to wealth on demand valid only in the country of issue.
To enable a merchant in this country to buy abroad, the
merchants abroad must buy the equivalent here. In the
long run, if the transactions do not balance, gold must
be sent to redress the difference. In this restriction foreign
trade differs from the simplicity and freedom of domestic
housekeeping.
Thus, at the stage we have reached, the bankers of
anyone nation appropriated as their own property some
1 E. Dick, in a recent work, The Interest Standard of Currency, 1925,
argues that raising the bank-rate of interest increases rather than decreases
the demand for credit, and that the correct course is to lower the rate in
order to cont-act. the currency.
• The rise of prices and outflow of gold is shown later to be the physically necessary consequence of the issue of the fictitious loans in the first
instance (p. 246).

THE PURCHASING POWER OF MONEY

169

four-fifths of the virtual wealth, or money of the country
under the system, as interest-bearing debt, but were unable
to affect or depreciate the gold value of the money in a
permanent fashion. Whether banking, as an international
organisation, has the power to depreciate the real value of
the currency is a much more difficult question, and demands
more attention than it has yet received. For the mechanism
only keeps the level of prices in different countries on a
gold basis roughly alike. It does not pretend to keep the
prices of goods in terms of gold constant with the progress
of time, and, as a matter of fact, has allowed them to vary
enormously.
THE PRESENT POSITION.

The moratorium declared in this country in 1914,
actually before a shot had been fired in the Great War,
showed that banking has become so vital to the interests
of the nation that the banks can call upon the national
credit to save them and their depositors from ruin in the
face of any great emergency. The public at that time
not only shouldered the burden, but lost their right to
demand gold ,in exchange for their money, and suffered
the debasement of the currency. So both restrictions to
the expansion of credit have now been removed. The
banks need not fear a run on their cash reserves, nor is there
any automatic regulation of the gold-value of money. That
their policy at the moment is to deflate rather than inflate
the currency is beside the question. It is they and not
the political Government which really regulate the economic
affairs of the country. They make the profits and the
taxpayers and citizens shoulder the losses under the system.
At the moment of writing (1925) the gold basis has
been partly restored, as regards foreign transactions,
though whether it can be maintained without repudiation
of liability for much of the thereby grossly magnified
National Debt still remains to be seen. But it is now open
to a merchant to pay for goods bought abroad in gold if
he elects to do so. The system which regulated in this

170 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
country the quantity of money in existence ceased in 1914,
and, whatever happens, is certain not to be fully restored.
The subject, so to speak, is suspended in the air at the
moment, and all the monetary text-books have become
out of date and misleading.
In this field it is as though men had just admitted the
possibility that day and night are due to the earth rotating
on its own axis, and not to the sun revolving round the
earth, and that, in spite of its manifest impiety, there may,
after all, be something in the new helio-centric view. In
absence of any real analysis of the physical nature of
wealth, and owing to the universal confusion in both
popular and technical economics between wealth and debt,
monetary theory has hitherto been as impressionistic as
the Ptolemaic theory of the universe now appears.
THE VARIABILI'l'Y OF GOLD.

Professor Irving Fisher, among orthodox economists,
has been foremost in calling attention to the evils of a
variable monetary standard, and has done much to get
the importance of the question more generally recognised.
But among the unorthodox, Silvio Gesell on the Continent,
and Mr. Arthur Kitson 1 in this country, have been like
voices, crying in the wilderness, years before any others
realised its vital interest. The following are excerpts from
a lecture given by Professor Fisher in 1924 before the
Boston Ethical Society.s Discussing the United States, he
says:
"Let us look at figures in this country back in 1860.
If we take 1860, before the Civil War, we find the purchasing
power about the same as in 1913, before the Great War.
1 Compare A Scientific Solution of the Money Question, 1894, Arena
Co., Boston, U.S.A.; A Fraudulent Standard, 1917; Trade Fallacies;
Unemployment, 1921, and other works by Arthur Kitson; and by Silvio
Gesell, A ktit'e Wahrongspolitik, 1908, and Die N aturliche Wirtschafts.
ordnung durch Freiland Freiqeld.
I Ethics in the Monetary System, "The Standard," published by the
American Ethical Union, Janua.ry 1925, p. 145.

THE PURCHASING POWER OF MONEY

171

We may call the level of 1860 or 1913 ' the pre-War level,'
and think of it for convenience as normal. The dollar
then was, so to speak, a dollar. In terms of this pre- War
dollar we can measure the dollar at any other time.
"We find as we pass into the Civil War, from 1860
to 1865, that it was worth only 40 pre-War cents. From
that time on it began to appreciate, first very rapidly and
then more slowly, until it reached its maximum in 1896,
when it was worth 152 pre-Warcents. From 1896 to 1913 the
dollar fell from 152pre- War cents to 100, or ' normal.' From
1913 it continued to fall, from 100 pre-War cents until it
got down to 40 again in May 1920. Then there was deflation, and rise in the value of the dollar. So the dollar
changed again from 40 until it reached 72 pre- War cents in
January 1922. Since that time it has been more stable
than we have had it for many years, and yet it has danced
about week by week a' little. . .. Our unstable dollar
has picked the pockets of the bondholder. . .. The
extent of this subtle robbing is prodigious.
" Professor W. I. King, one of the best statisticians I
know, when appearing in favour of a Bill on this subject
in Congress a year or so ago, said that as nearly as he could
reckon it out there had been a sort of pocket-picking of
forty billions of dollars in the United States during the
last half-dozen years. . . .
"When, at last, we really stabilise the dollar, as we
now stabilise every other measure, to help make business
honest, we shall have taken a great step forward in safeguarding and improving commercial ethics."
In his book, The Purchasing Power of Money (1911),
he states that the purchasing power of money a thousand
years ago was five times, and from 1200 to 1500 A.D. two to
three times, what it was in 1911. During the last century
before the War there have been five well-marked periods
in all countries, as regards the change in the purchasing
power of gold. In the forty years between 1809 and 1849
prices fell in the ratio of 5 to 2.

172 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
THE EVILS OF A VARIABLE STANDARD.

After the bitter experiences of the last few years few
people can remain unaware of the crying injustice of a
variable monetary standard. The ethical principles underlying the institution of money appeal intuitively to the
common sense of humanity. Just as we concede, without
arguing the point, that the use of false weights and measures
is indefensible in any circumstances, and that our standards
ought to be invariable and placed beyond the possibility
of being tampered with, so the same principle ought to
be unquestionably conceded with regard to the value of
money. A variation in the value of money, in terms of
wealth, arbitrarily robs one class in the community for the
benefit of others. In such matters people are apt "to
compound the sins they are inclined to by damning those
they have no mind to." A fall in the value of money, or
rise of the general level of prices, defrauds those in receipt
of wages, salaries and incomes of fixed monetary amount
and advantages those who live by buying and selling. It
lightens the past indebtedness of the community, and if
the old currency becomes worthless, as it has done in Russia,
Austria and Germany, wipes it out. So that a man may
awake to the fact that his life-savings are not worth a
farthing, and that an empty bottle is now worth more than
the money before received from the sale of the vineyard.
Nor is a fall in prices and rise in the value of money in
relation to wealth less disastrous. It falls upon another
set of people, and puts out of action the merchant, the
industrialist and their wage-earners. We cannot progress
a step in this subject unless we can devise a monetary
system in which the money is issued neither for usury nor
in response to political pressure from this or that particular
interest, but by the nation solely and freely as it is required
to keep its value in relation to wealth as constant as is
possible from century to century. Any ideal short of this
is simply to accept Stephen Leacock's definition of political
economy as that which teaches we know nothing of the
laws of wealth.

THE PURCHASING POWER OF MONEY 173
THE EVILS OF A SHORTAGE OF CURRENCY.

It is extraordinarily difficult, but at the same time
essential, to understand the real ultimate factors that,
during the period from the Bank Charter Act of 1844 to
the issue of national Treasury notes in 1914, really did limit
the expansion of the currency and with it the prosperity of
the country and its rate of producing consumable wealth.
That the forces in operation were not even remotely understood is shown by the alternating periodic sequence of
trade booms and slumps, called the trade cycle, which was,
like the weather, regarded as completely beyond the wit of
man to understand.
It may be of assistance to try to understand what would
have been the result if credit money had not so largely
replaced the precious metals as currency, and the latter
had remained the sole medium of exchange. According
to the current view, prices would have tended to fall greatly
as the new powers of production outstripped-not, as
usually stated, the rate at which gold was won, but the
aggregate of it in existence. Economists have made many
such errors through failing to distinguish clearly between
the two categories of wealth-permanent and perishablealready insisted upon, but this point will be taken up
later.
Gold and silver mining, being essentially very speculative and dependent upon chance discoveries, a long time
necessarily elapses before a demand for precious metals
can much increase the aggregate quantity available for
currency. But their use as commodities, for jewellery
and as hoards, enables the currency to be increased from
these sources if their value or purchasing power increases
to such an extent as to induce people to give up their ornaments and spend their accumulations. The triple function
of the precious metals as coinage, jewellery and hoards is
responsible for much of the complication of the subject.
If prices of goods rise in terms of gold, a given quantity
of gold, though its winning consumes the same wealth, as

174 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
food, etc., buys less and less wealth until gold-mining
becomes unprofitable. Per contra a fall of prices stimulates
gold-mining. A practical example of the effect, though
not the cause, was seen during the War, which, though it
produced an enormously stimulated demand for gold for
the expansion of the currency, made gold-mining relatively
unprofitable! For the demand was met by the partial
demonetisation of gold and the creation of an inconvertible
paper money. This raised prices and made gold-mining
unprofitable, exactly as if the gold had really been won.
Reverting to the probable course of events, if credit
money had not been invented, in the end no doubt the
fall of prices would have been checked. A larger and
larger proportion of the world's energies would have been
diverted to the financially profitable, but socially barren,
task of accumulating gold and silver for currency, until
sufficient had been accumulated to distribute the increasing
revenue of wealth without a further fall of price-level.
The effect of the great improvements in the knowledge of
gold-mining due to scientific discovery, later to be alluded
to, would have told in the same direction.
Admittedly there would have been very great and distressing evils and dislocation. The actual course of historical events, when successive waves of commercial prosperity resulted from each of the major gold discoveries
of last century, shows that, even with the increasing use
of credit currency, these evils were not wholly escaped.
Usury would have risen to altogether extortionate rates,
though probably the toll taken would have been insignificant
in comparison with that extorted to-day under a monetary
system perverted to that end. In general all debts would
have appreciated in real amount, as money prices fell.
The dead hand of the past would have been heavy on
the land.
PRODUCTION REDUCED RATHER THAN PRICES.

But the really vital evils of a currency scarcity are due
to its reducing production rather than prices. The quantity

THE PURCHASING POWER OF MONEY 175
theory of money 1 works beautifully one way. Increasing
the quantity of money temporarily increases, but makes no
very lasting difference to, the aggregate virtual wealth,
and prices very quickly rise in proportion to the increase.
What some gain others lose. But decreasing the quantity
of money is apt to decrease virtual wealth in proportion
much more permanently, leaving prices unchanged and production reduced through the ruin of those engaged in
enterprise. This is dead loss, not as in the former case
merely a redistribution of wealth, and it is reflected in a
very much more permanent reduction of virtual wealth.
Whereas an excess of money is an inducement to a
sale, a deficit is a fatal barrier. To the vendors, whose
business it is to sell wealth for money, money is the primary
consideration. To the buyer and consumer wealth is.
The consumer is exposed to increased competition with
others, due to an increase of the quantity of money, and is
powerless to resist a rise in prices. But no one in his
senses, who has produced wealth for sale or caused it to
be produced, and has, over a period of past time, incurred
the charges involved in production, is going willingly to
sell it at a loss to suit the quantity theory of money. If
his competitors essayed to do so, they could hardly compete long. The result is that less goods are bought with the
less money at the same price, not that the same goods are
bought at a reduced price. Or, in the case under consideration, that the opportunity to increase production by new
inventions remains for long unexploited, and, with increasing
powers of production, the production of wealth, as in this
country now, stagnates.
For a period of inflation (money increasing relatively
to the revenue of wealth) the quantitative theory is a rough
guide to the facts. Whereas for a period of deflation
(money decreasing relatively to the revenue of wealth) the
older mercantile, or commodity, theory, which regards
money as itself a commodity or valuable article, this being
1 For an exposition of the quantity theory of money see Irving Fisher
The Purcha8ing Power of Money.

176

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

the vendor's conception of money, is a better guide. If it is
any comfort to the advocates of the former theory, it may
readily be admitted that, no doubt, it would work if it
did not have the unfortunate consequence of ruining those
committed to enterprise-labour and capital alike-and,
in the end, in Mr.. Keynes' sense of the word, "after we
are all dead," no doubt must work.
WHAT IS LEFT OF THE VALUE OF THE STANDARD OF
VALUE 1

From these considerations we may begin to understand
not only the extraordinary fascination which gold has exercised from the earliest times upon the human mind and the
persistence of the worship of the golden calf implicit, if
unacknowledged, in contemporaneous thought, but also
the extraordinary influence which some of the most profound
students of history have not hesitated to ascribe to the
abundance and scarcity of the precious metals. Equally
we may regard it as not at all a small permanent gain to
humanity if the experience of the Great War has thrown
fresh light upon and, at least in part, explained some of
these profound influences.
Let us revert to a very curious fact, that the War produced at one and the same time a great demand for currency
and made gold-mining temporarily unprofitable, because the
paper substitutes raised prices just as if the same quantity
of gold had really been won. If the price of gold had not
been fixed arbitrarily higher than that stipulated by the
Bank Charter Act, although still much lower than proportionally to that of goods in general, probably few mines
would have been able to continue work. Now the same
factor must have been operating, in gradual but continuous
fashion, ever since the currency began to be expanded
by credit money, thus artificially cheapening the relative
value of the standard which we are accustomed to regard
as invariable. Not only have we to consider the great
technical achievements in gold-mining-eyaniding, dredging,
and the general rise in power and efficiency of mining plant-

THE PURCHASING POWER OF MONEY

177

operating upon the standard of value exactly in the same
direction, though not necessarily at the same rate, as upon
every other kind of physical wealth, increasing the quantity
produced by a given expenditure of human effort, but,
in addition to this, we are supplying for one of the major
uses of the precious metals a costless substitute, and removing from the standard of value one of the main reasons
for its value. The growth of banking is removing anotherthe practice of hoarding. As for the remainder, gold teeth
and even gold stoppings have long gone out of fashion.
The general rise of education has made, and is making,
personal adornment by massive golden chains and rings
too obvious a relic of barbarism. The modern desire to
avoid all ostentation, and at the same time to indulge
in the maximum possible expense, is leading to the substitution in jewellery, even for wedding-rings, of gold by
platinum, a metal which looks like silver and costs five
times as much as gold-greatly to the disgust of chemists
who, whatever it costs, must have platinum, and look
back regretfully to the day when it was much less valuable
than gold. So what is left of the value of the standard of
value 1
Clearly a gold basis of currency nowadays must be a
rapidly depreciating currency. In the race between science,
on the one hand, and finance, education and fashion on
the other-the one cheapening the cost of producing all
wealth in general and the other the standard of monetary
value in particular-the see-saw of price-level which marked
the past century is likely to be succeeded in the future by
a rapid continuous rise of gold prices. Indeed, even to-day,
if the gold that flowed to America during the War were let
loose instead of being kept chained up, the results in this
direction would probably be devastating. This is a temporary situation, with the outlook on the future.
GOLD AS THE SPUR OF CIVILISATION.

Let us, from a more general point of view, examine the
effect of gold in past history. If we do not find in it exactly
12

178 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
the cause of human progress, we shall have to admit that
it must have been a powerful spur. Civilisation has never
asked itself what exactly it has set itself to in adopting
as the standard of value, the store of value and the medium
of exchange, the metal gold. All the conventional qualities
which are supposed to make the metal ideal for money
are, in fact, fatal to its use. Consider first its permanency
and imperishability. Men may come and men may go,
but gold goes on accumulating for ever. The quantity
of gold in existence is the physical factor regulating the
total quantity of money in existence, as much under a
currency based on gold as in the past, and this quantity
is the integral of all the increments of gold contributed
during the history of mankind. In literal truth, gold is
not imperishable, as it suffers abrasion in use, but is so
nearly so that its period of average life is greater than that
of almost any other permanent form of wealth.
The value of money is given by the virtual wealth
divided by the total quantity of money, so that the seeds
of continuous depreciation are innate in the choice of gold.
If we stereotyped the existing scale of virtual wealth and
the material prosperity it connotes, the increment of the
quantity of gold would still go on, and, even with a dwindling
revenue of wealth, the quantity of gold in existence would
continue to increase so long as it was money.
Society, in effect, says to its workers, whether we want
more gold or less, nevertheless if you bring gold, even when
what we really need is food, you may have the pick of the
market for it. The loss falls not on you, but on the whole
community, though if you contributed stage-coaches or
windmills no one will take them off your hands. So that,
even in a period of dwindling revenue, when, if the money
is not to depreciate in purchasing power, some of the stock
ought to be buried in the earth again or sunk in the sea,
the accumulation of gold still goes on.
In mathematical terms, society, in adopting gold as its
measure of value and its medium of exchange, is attempting
to keep a differential coefficient proportional to its own

THE PURCHASING POWER OF MONEY

179

integral, for it must make the proportionate increment of
its revenue of wealth always as great as the proportionate
increment of its aggregate quantity of gold. There is one
mathematical function for which this is true, and it is the
exponential function." This is the function which regulates
the dizzy virtues of compound interest.
Living in an age of relatively sudden expansion of
productive power, the task may at first be easy. But it
is quite a different proposition over long periods. It is not
a question of maintaining any given level of production,
but of maintaining indefinitely the proportional rate of
increase of production. So that in the end, when this
becomes physically impossible, the currency must undergo
depreciation.
In this we may possibly find a physical justification for
the existence of interest upon a monetary debt, as distinct
from the hire-payment for the use of organs of production
in production. During the War, when currencies were
being rapidly debased, the astute found that it paid to
borrow and to borrow and to borrow, whatever the rate
of interest. For by the time the loans had to be repaid,
principal and interest were worth, in goods, less than the
original principal was when it was borrowed. But we have
seen that the continuous accumulation of the precious metals
must be a depreciating factor on the value of the currency,
absolutely independent of all other considerations whatever,
so that on this account to repay a debt of £1 lent in the past
more than £1 is required to-day, or regarding 1£1 as the
wealth obtainable for £1 originally, to buy it to-day requires
more than £1.
The other reasons why gold is unsuitable for currency
trench upon a question the discussion of which, hitherto,
we have avoided. But, we may take it, meantime, as a
fact of experience without as yet attempting the explanation
that an increase in the quantity o.f money is a great stimulus
to productive enterprise.

180 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
Not only during the War, but also after the gold discoveries of last century, trade greatly flourished, and
general prosperity resulted. Now this prosperity directly.
stimulates the luxury demand for gold for jewellery and
ornament, and in countries-still the majority-without a
highly developed banking system, for saving. Thus the
money tends to disappear again, the stimulus due to abundance of money receives a check, and a period of depression
ensues. Then these hoards and stores, before taken out
of the circulation, tend to reappear and again help to
inaugurate a boom. The trade cycle, in some part at
least, must be due to the use of a metal as the basis of
currency, which is gradually withdrawn as industry expands
and comes back as it contracts, exactly the opposite to
what is required of a currency. Even the ease with which
the precious metals can be melted up without loss, and
converted from coin to merchandise and back again an
innumerable number of times at trifling cost, which has
been held to make them especially suitable for coinage, is
a fatal defect. Just as the industrial system has been
laboriously tuned up to a higher level of production, the
medium of exchange turns into an article of luxury, and
with it goes the wave of prosperity.
GOLD NOW A FRAUDULENT STANDARD.

Summing up, we may say that with a gold currency
in an era of expansion there will be a long period of
currency shortage, attended with dislocation of the economic
machinery of society. But the causes which expand production act in the same direction, though not necessarily at
the same rate and to the same extent, on gold. So that
the standard of value tends to be affected in the same way
as the goods it measures, and gold prices tend to revert in
time to their former level.
With a currency based on gold, the currency will adapt
itself to the expansion very much more quickly. The
human effort formerly spent in accumulating gold for

THE PURCHASING POWER OF MONEY

181

coinage is saved, but under existing systems the saving
benefits, not the community as a whole, but the banker.
So long as convertibility with gold is maintained, even
international banking can only debase the gold value of
money to a definite extent. For, consider the case of a
uniform inflation in all countries to the same degree at
the same time. There is then no tendency for gold to
flow from one country to another, as in the case of an
inflation in one country relatively to another. But gold
would, as the demand for it as merchandise absorbed it,
disappear entirely from the currency, because the money
will buy of gold more than its value in terms of other
goods and more gold than could be obtained by expending the same sum in gold-mining. The coinage is thus
hoarded or melted down and used in the arts, and would
disappear in time from circulation entirely with the debasement of the currency, though the effect at first would be to
cheapen gold as a commodity and the standard of value.
But by the use of credit money, based upon a small
proportion of gold, the quantity of money becomes subject
to much greater and more violent variation than before,
and the exchange value of gold in terms of goods oscillates.
The causes which are inherent in the use of gold as a luxury
article, as well as a medium of exchange, are greatly exaggerated, producing the trade cycle.
The increasing use of bank credit and paper robs gold
of one of its main uses, and, after the oscillations of the past
century, we may look forward to a continuously rising gold
price-level. So that credit money, having largely rendered
gold obsolete, the device of making it convertible into coin
on demand has ceased to be effective against its continuous
depreciation, and has already come to be deceitful.
Hence arises an increasing necessity for stabilising the
currency entirely without reference to gold, and reducing
the latter to the level of a commodity, possibly honouring
it meantime as international money at its market value,
in redressing international indebtedness, under some equitable convention agreed upon by the League of Nations.

182 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
REAL WAGES AND JUST WAGES.

Before embarking on this inquiry, it may he pointed
out that we are as far as ever from any Absolute Standard
or Measure of VaJue, and it may be instructive to restate
in a new form some of the preceding points. Economists,
when they have taken into account the variabilities of the
exchange value of gold and corrected for it-by means of
index numbers, which enable them to reduce money prices
to some former price-level taken as a standard of reference
-arrive at what they term the real value of incomes, wages
and the like; that is, values entirely independent of the
money totals in which they are expressed, but representing the quantity of goods in general these incomes, wages,
etc., will buy. But the real values, though real enough in
representing definite quantities of purchasable goods and
sufficient for economics as a science of exchange or commerce, are not measures at all of the human-being-hours
expended in their production. If the efficiency of the processes of production did not change, or if civilisation were
stagnant, then they would be-in fact, their use tends to
stabilise wages and incomes and the consumptions they
represent, so that we have the interminable argument,
already alluded to, as to whether the worker to-day is
economically better off than, at least as well off as, or only
slightly worse off than, his predecessor in pre-scientific ages!
Now, if we are considering debt and its repayment, a
currency stablised so as to maintain the price-level of goods
in general constant solves the problem-that is, commerce
would be freed from all the legally unrecognised forms of
theft attendant upon a variation of the standard of monetary
value, which are of much the same nature as would result
from fraudulent weights and measures. Business men and
others could make contracts ahead without fear of being
caught in a trap by variations in the general price-level
due to monetary manipulation. But if we are considering
the reward of work and the right of a worker to the produce
of his work, clearly we have to take into account not merely

THE PURCHASING POWER OF MONEY 183
the quantities of goods by which he is remunerated, but
also what he produces. His real wages, in the sense used
in economics, has to be expressed relatively to what he
produces to arrive at his just wages.
The fact that it may be difficult to assess this, or to
solve the problem as between the reward of present and
past labour, does not in the least affect the question of the
right of the worker to a just wage or the certainty that with
growing knowledge and power he will not rest until he has
secured it. Economics is, or ought to be, a far wider and
more important study than commerce. Those who deny
that it ought to concern itself with anything else may save
themselves the trouble of thought, but do not add to the
dignity of the subject.

CHAPTER IX

A NATIONAL MONEY SYSTEM
THE SOCIAL IMPORTANCE OF THE STUDY OF MONEY.
FROM the standpoint of society, the study of money is, in
its social significance and effect on human welfare, as uplifting and as ennobling as from the individual standpoint
it is apt to be selfish and degrading. Its technical jargon
of the market-place make it appear a repellent subject,
and it is capable of being made drier and duller even than
a mathematical treatise on thermodynamics. Indeed, its
absolute novelty to most people, and their preconceptions,
derived from undue absorption in its individual acquisition,
make it a difficult subject, the more so as very powerful
vested interests depend for their continued existence upon
the public being kept in ignorance of its mysteries. Those
essaying the study often at first over-estimate the direct
importance of money in the social economy-its indirect
importance could hardly be over-estimated-and the
"unsound money-men" have always been a special bite
noire to the orthodox economist, though it would hardly be
possible to have anything more fundamentally unsound
than modern monetary systems, the principles of which the
economists have never seriously challenged. It is essential
to have clear physical conceptions of money and finance,
as such, to enable us to understand their more important
indirect bearing upon the admittedly still to be solved
problems of achieving industrial expansion without the
unwelcome concomitants of unemployment and the trade
cycle. Those who have penetrated most deeply into the
study of human history find it impossible to exaggerate

A NATIONAL MONEY SYSTEM
the importance of the institution of money.

185

As Delmar 1

hag said: "It is a study that none can afford to approach

with rashness or leave with complacency."
Among the list of master-minds he cites as having
essayed its study in the past it is encouraging to a scientific
man to read the names of Newton, Copernicus and Tycho
Brahe. This indicates that scientific men in the past have
not always interpreted their function as narrowly as is
the custom to-day, or been so ready to leave with complacency to others the application of their work to the daily
life of the world.
"Unheard, unseen, unfelt, it has the power so to distribute the burdens, gratifications and opportunities of
life that each individual shall enjoy that share of them to
which his merits or his good fortune may entitle him, or
contrariwise, to dispense them with so partial a hand as to
violate every principle of justice and perpetuate a succession
of social slaveries to the end of time." 2
Again, one could hardly better describe" Europe after
twenty centuries of Christendom" than by this passage
from Ferraro :
" The Imperial Democracy that held a world beneath its
sway, from the senators who bore historic names down to
the humblest tiller of the soil, from Julius Cresar down
to the smallest shopkeeper in a back street of Rome, was
at the mercy of a small group of usurers." 3
Sir Archibald Allison traces the fall of the Roman Empire
to the decline of the gold and silver mines of Spain and
Greece, and the Renaissance to the discovery of the mines
of Mexico and Peru. Whilst it is almost in the memory
of living men how the successive discoveries of gold in
California, Australia and South Africa ushered in wave
after wave of economic prosperity. More recent and
striking still, we have the fresh experience of the Great
War, when, apart from the destruction of life and property
and the effects of blockade on the Central Powers, there was
I
3

History of Monetary Systems.
2 Delmar,loc. eit;
Ferraro, Greatness and Decline of the Roman Empire, vi, 223.

186 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
a degree of economic prosperity and abolition of crime and
poverty in the belligerent countries unknown in the time
of peace.
We have seen that in modern times a fundamental
change has come over the nature of money. Not only is it
now a simple token of the community's indebtedness to
the individual owner of it, but it is created not by the
national authority, but by private institutions for lending
at interest. It is therefore essential to go back to first
principles in considering it. We must be on our guard
against carrying over unchallenged into the modern era
the earlier views of the evil power of money and the stigma
attaching to usury deriving from ancient and mediseval
times when money was a totally different institution.
ANALYSIS OF USURY.

In its original meaning usury simply meant the interest
upon a loan of money, whereas to-day it has Come to be a
term of opprobrium, referring rather to excessive and
extortionate interest, increasing in proportion to the debtor's
inability to repay. The mention of this form of petty
usury, as it exists in the underworld of great cities and among
the swarming populations of India, conjures up possibly in
the mind a memory of evidences of human terror and
anguish one had never expected to meet this side the abode
of the damned, and gives rise to a feeling of physical loathing as of something at work, ghoulish and inhuman, battening upon, if not responsible for, the extremity of misery.
Whereas, at the other pole, interest upon a money
loan to the strong and adventurous, to enable them to
develop the resources of the earth and to climb to positions
of influence and power within the State, has nowadays
occasionally even replaced the ladder offered in earlier
times by the Church to the gifted offspring of the poor,
and has been endowed not only with respectability, but
even with an odour of sanctity.
Both in the ancient and the mediarval world there is

A NATIONAL MONEY SYSTEM

187

undeniable evidence of the evils of usury. We have quoted
the striking passage of Ferraro on its power in ancient
Rome. The Christian Church at first universally condemned
it. Indeed, the bar on usury was not removed in the Roman
Catholic Church till quite recent times. But there is
little doubt that these evils arose not so much out of the
practice of lending money in itself as from the comparative
ease with which the currency metals can be monopolised.
A period of great Imperial expansion, such as those of
Rome, Spain and the modern Western world, demands an
increase of currency. But it never seems anyone's business
to supply it. The world may be thirsting for gold, the
finding of which is, at best, a long and hazardous business,
and against the real interests of those with gold to spend
in the search. For if there are many borrowers and few
lenders, the rate of interest rises just as the price of a commodity rises if there are many buyers and few sellers.
The evil of interest upon money is not difficult to understand with money made of naturally very scarce materials.
" Get your man into your debt for what he has not got
and cannot get, and you may take the skin off him," is
a financial aphorism which sufficiently indicates not only
the cause of the evils of usury, but of those of monetary
power in general. Make debts repayable in wealth, which,
if people have not got they can make, and you strike at the
heart of both evils.
With paper money this question, like the question of
"hoarding," is utterly different. A nation printing and
issuing its own money as required for use would be absolutely free from the a1tri sacra lames due to the monopoly
of the coinage metals, and from the cause of the main
evils of money as they arose in the past. It could regulate
usury, absolutely within its own judgment, as the national
interests demanded, by its control over the issue of money.
In a time of abounding productivity due to science, it
could, if it wished, repay, or at least redeem, its debts,
neither in gold nor " pounds of flesh," but mirabile dictu
in wealth in general. If it thought in real terms of wealth,

188 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
not in that of money, it would not, in a time of greater
powers of producing than the world has ever enjoyed, with
millions of unemployed, large-scale organs of production
lying idle and cultivated land reverting to grass, see the
exact point in paying its creditors perennial interest for
not repaying them, though, as we shall come to see, an
individualistic society 1 can only redeem debts by levying
taxation on the general wealth of the community.
GENUINE AND FICTITIOUS MONEY LOANS.

It was necessary at the risk of wearying the reader
in Chapter VII, to go with great minuteness into the transition from the old national metal money to the modern
money created by loan. Because the real charge against
the modern system is not so much that it has caused an
enormous increase in the practice of carrying on industry
upon borrowed money, as that the bank loans are not
genuine money loans, but are entirely fictitious, in that no
one gives up the money lent, which is new money created
for that purpose.
The owner of money is absolutely within his moral as
well as his legal rights to spend or lend or hoard, but if
he spends or lends it is to be understood that he really
does give up the money spent or lent. With cash the lender
must do so. Even a bank deposit is technically distinguished as a current account or a deposit account. With
the first, the owner has not given up his power to spend,
and cannot, in this country at least, obtain interest on it,
though in America interest is, or at least was, commonly
given even on current accounts. In the case of a deposit
proper, the owner of the money does give up and transfer
temporarily to the bank his purchasing power, and in
return for the loan he receives a payment of interest on
the deposit. In this distinction we see the original restriction that applies to metal money still lingering with regard
to bank money. But obviously the question of usury is
1 An individua.listic society owns no revenue-producing property, and
derives its revenue solely from taxation.

A NATIONAL MONEY SYSTEM

189

totally different, whether we consider a genuine loan, as
in the case of a loan of cash, or of a sum deposited and not
recoverable without due notice, and interest upon money
which the owner has never given up at all. It will certainly
be argued that the depositor, although he does not give
up the right to spend at will, in fact does not exercise it, as
is shown by the existence of the deposit, so that between
the two classes of account there is a distinction without
a difference.
LENDING MONEY IN CURRENT ACCOUNT INDEFENSIBLE.

This position, though it is very far from justifying
what actually does occur in banking where" every loan
creates a deposit" (Withers and McKenna), appears plausible,
but can easily be shown to be indefensible. For one has
only to remember the undeniable fact that the total quantity
of money in a country is not affected by its being spent or
not spent, to see that the argument is not concerned with
the lending of money at all, but with its existence.
Let us suppose that cheques entirely replace cash as
purchasing power and that everyone has a bank deposit.
This is now so near the actual state of affairs that for the
purpose of this argument it may be taken as already to a
very substantial extent true. Now if we concede to the
banker the right to lend the deposits on the score that their
existence shows the owners are not using them, we thereby
double the money in the country, and double the deposits.
The existence of the doubled deposits is as clear evidence
as before that their owners are not using them so they may
be lent again, and now the deposits are increased four times.
So we may go on and create an infinite quantity of money.
It is interesting that J. S. Mill, nearly a century ago,
contemplated precisely such a case, payments being universally by cheque and " no money anywhere except in the
hand of the banker, who might then safely part with all
of it by selling it as bullion or lending it, to be sent ont of
the country in exchange for goods or foreign securities."
He concluded: "There would be in all this nothing to

190 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
complain of, so long as the money, in disappearing, left an
equivalent of other things, applicable when required to
the reimbursement of those to whom the money originally
belonged."
Why he confined the consideration of the case to lending
the money to be sent out of the country is one of those
mysteries that may never be solved. If he had not done
so he would have made the interesting discovery already
deduced, and which even at that time must already have
been made by the bankers themselves. Nor do later economists seem to have pointed this out, though the finicking
distinction they seem always so careful to preserve between
money and bank deposits, without being able to point
to any practical difference whatever, suggests that they
may have known. MacLeod, the barrister, lays great
stress upon a bank deposit not being money, but a right
of action against. the banker. Irving Fisher, having arbitrarily defined circulating media or currency as anything,
whether generally acceptable or not, which serves as a
means of exchange, and money as "what is generally
acceptable in exchange for goods," says: "But while a
bank deposit transferable by check is included as circulating media, it is not money. A bank note, on the other
hand, is both circulating medium and money. Between
these two lies the final line of distinction between what
is money and what is not. True, the line is delicately
drawn. . . ."
These distinctions may have had some significance a
century ago, but their retention to-day seems the merest
hair-splitting for the purpose of confusing the issues.
We thus come back to the point that, in the case of the
old-fashioned usury, the moneylender did give up the money
he lent and received interest upon a genuine loan. In the
case of money lent by a bank, it is given up by no one and
the loans are entirely fictitious except in the case of genuine
"time deposits," which Macrosty estimates, both for this
country and the United States, as one-fifth of the whole
deposits. Even these, in so far as they exceed the cash

A. NATIONAL MONEY SYSTEM

191

held by the banks-the only money not of its own manufacture the bank has to lend-were created in the first
instance by the banks themselves. It is true that, up to
the time of the War-which then saw the money of the
country multiplied almost suddenly two and a half times
-the creation of this money was a gradual affair extending
over a century. Custom has confirmed the banker in his
enjoyment of it, and made it quite out of the question ever
to decreate it. But it is not his. as he himself would probably
be the first to admit, if it were a question of his spending
instead of lending it. It is, as we have seen, the virtual
wealth of the community as a whole.
THE BREAKDOWN OF THE MONETARY SYSTEM; THE
MORATORIUM:.

The outbreak of the Great \Var revealed the complete
unsoundness of our currency system. On July 24, 1914,
Austria sent its ultimatum to Serbia. The world's Stock
Exchanges, of course, took fright and ceased to function.
On the last day of that month the London and New
York Exchanges followed the example of the Continental
Bourses and closed their doors. Securities of all kinds
became temporarily unsaleable. By August 6th a general
moratorium was declared. The banks only possessing a
small reserve of money against their money liabilities to
the public were quite unable to call in their loans and to
attempt to recover the money which the system had allowed
them to loan without possessing. It could not adopt the
usual plan of selling at any sacrifice the collateral securities
deposited by, and the property of, the borrowers so long
as the Stock Exchange remained closed. The country had
so "economised" in the use of money that there literally
did not exist in the country one-sixth of the amount that
those owning money were legally entitled to, or one-fifth
of the amount upon which industry was paying interest.
If the Stock Exchanges had not shut and it had been
attempted to sell the securities to repay the loans created,

192 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
this fact would have become most painfully obvious.
Those to whom the credits had been granted, of course did
not own the money, but had exchanged it for wealth with
the owners of wealth, whereby former owners of wealth
and not the borrowers now legally owned the money that
had no existence. The loans could only therefore be got
back, if recalled, by a forced sale of the borrowers' collateral
securities at any price they would fetch. "In the end"
the currency would have been reduced to a mere fraction
of its former amount, and prices also. Whereas we have
seen that it is very difficult to reduce prices by constricting
the currency, because the producers of wealth will not sell
below cost price unless forced to do so. The fraction of
the currency that the banks would have recovered by the
forced sale of their debtors' collateral securities and of all
that they themselves possessed in the way of wealth would
have been insignificant. In other words, they would have
been hopelessly ruined, and those who had deposited
their money with them would have lost it but for the
moratorium.
Naturally the Government had to resume the responsibility for the regulation of the currency which the nominal
political rulers of the country in the nineteenth century
had shirked and passed on to private firms. It did what
ought to have been done from the very commencement of
the Industrial Revolution. It printed real money-money,
that is to say, which the owner owns, not money on an
unseen string to be called back and put out of circulation
at the first financial panic by a power behind the throne.
But unfortunately every Treasury note so printed and
exchanged for wealth to pay for the cost of the War was
multiplied in the old ratio by the banking system, now
restored to solvency, and quite relieved from any risk of
failing under any circumstances. These credits being only
lent passed, of course, into the circulation without paying
for anything at all. The necessity for financing the War
was unavoidable, but the question has been much discussed
as to the methods adopted. Let us examine them.

A NATIONAL MONEY SYSTEM

193

WAR FINANCE.

Patriotic people in this country-and for that matter
in Germany-were urged to invest money in War Loans
to help to win the War, and did so. Some of the very
curious consequences that arise from the fact that the same
money circulates in an endless round, though the production and consumption of wealth is continuous, were
then seen in their proper light probably for the first time.
The more the nations spent the more they found they could
spend-the flow idea, as contrasted with the store idea,
that the more you spend the less you have left to spend,
and the more you have to abstain from spending in future
to replenish the store. The more people lent to finance
the War, the more they found they had to lend among those
classes of the community engaged in production. But
all classes were encouraged to lend, and if they had no
money to lend the country to help it to win the War, they
could run into debt to the banks, and payout of what
they expected to have in the future. For every Treasury
note printed and deposited in the banks enabled them to
lend six or more pounds as credit, and the new War Loan
the borrower would receive was a sufficient collateral
security for the loan. The Bank of England issued circulars
offering to lend at 3 per cent the money necessary to secure
War Loan upon which the taxpayer was to provide 4 per
cent. So that for each pound the taxpayer contributed,
the bank would receive 15s. and the bogus subscriber 5s.
The bank took no risk, for it would hold the new script
as collateral security for their loan until the debt was
redeemed. This transaction is merely a rather clearer
example than usual of the process of saddling upon the
taxpayer the interest charges upon fictitious loans.
The amount of the War Loans so raised, apart from
the American debt, was of the order of £M7,OOO, and the
charges for interest amount roughly to a million pounds a.
day. The total amount of money in the possession of
the public we have seen was about £Ml,200 before the War

194 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
and about £M2,700 in 1920. A small part only of the
increase was due to the issue of Treasury notes, probably
not more than one-fifth. It is a great pity that the exact
amount issued does not seem to be publicly known.
The point has been argued whether a larger part, or
even the whole of the War expenditure, could not have been
levied by taxation, since if people have spare money to
invest, in theory at least, the State ought to be able to get
at it by taxation. It will be generally admitted that taxation is too indiscriminate and impersonal to extract only
money from the pockets of those with spare cash and to
leave those who have none uninjured. In the stress of
war more urgent matters call for consideration than the
devising of new methods of taxation to strike at the affluent
and miss the indigent. It would have made the War unpopular in the City, and that is the same as saying that,
for good or evil, it could not have been "fought to a
finish."
Apart from printing money, taxation and selling foreign
securities to pay for goods received from foreign countries,
all of which methods the State employed, it relied upon the
patriotism of its citizens to subscribe liberally to War
Loans, which they did to the extent of £M7,000, of greatly
depreciated money. The ostensible object was to stop
the people who subscribed from spending either what
they had, or, in the case of those who borrowed from the
banks, what they would receive in the future, so that they
should not compete in the market for and inflate the
prices of the goods the State needed, or would need, for
the conduct of the War, or, now the War is over, for its
normal life.
Observe the nature of the contract. We, the taxpayers,
are pledged to pay you, an individual, £5 a year for ever
after, till the loan is repaid, for every £100 of purchasing
power you have agreed to forgo. If the State had not
been afraid of individuals exercising their purchasing power,
it could have printed and not borrowed the money.

A NATIONAL MONEY SYSTEM

195

THE RBDUCTIO .AD ABSURDUM OF THE MODERN
MONETARY SYSTEM.
It is perfectly legitimate for an individual to recover
his purchasing power by selling his script and so reducing
the purchasing power of somebody else, thereby leaving the
total unchanged. But as things are, he need not do so.
He merely needs to deposit it at the bank, and, as a giltedged security, it would be acceptable immediately as
collateral security, though really productive wealth, such
as a factory as a going concern, might not be so acceptable.
This is one of the by no means minor absurdities of private
banking: dead debts are preferred to wealth as security
simply because backed by the national powers of taxation.
When the bank accepts War Loan as a collateral security
the borrower pays the bank the current bank-rate of
interest to do precisely what the State pays him out of
the pockets of the taxpayer 5 per cent per annum not to
do. Actually the taxpayer pays the tax, not to but only
via the bond-holder to the bank, for doing precisely what
the tax was imposed to prevent being done. Thus easily
in this simple case we arrive at the reductio ad absurdum
of the modern money system.

How THE TAXPAYER PAYS £MIOO A YEAR INTEREST ON
NON-EXISTENT MONEY.
We have seen that something of the order of two thousand million pounds have been created by the banks.
Lent at interest, it brings in a revenue of some £MlOO a
year at a bank-rate of 5 per cent. The effect of this creation on prices is completely and absolutely indistinguishable
from that of national money. It is unnecessary to print
£M2,OOO worth of £1 Treasury notes, and put them into
circulation. They would merely take up storage room
in the vaults of the bank until the next war or financial
panic, when they can be so much more easily printed if
required. But there is no reason to continue to pay the
.£MlOO per annum out of the taxes. Although the money

196 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
has no physical existence, and, except in times of crisis,
does not need to have, owing to the popularity of the cheque
system, the legal titles to claim it exist and are owned by
genuine depositors.
If anyone wants a loan of currency on the security of
a holding of War Loan, and can get it in a roundabout
way by an increase of the total currency, clearly it is an
elementary principle of business that the State should
cancel the debt and itself issue the money to pay for it.
The money is issued in either case with effects indistinguishable, whether it is bank credit or national money. But,
if the State issued it in exchange for fresh currency, it
would relieve the taxpayer from the necessity of paying
interest, and the original contract would thus be terminated
in a business-like manner fair to both parties.
The old extreme laissez-faire policy of individualistic
economics jealously denied to the State the right of competing in any way with individuals in the ownership of
productive enterprise, out of which monetary interest or
profit can be made, and this was ignorantly extended even
to the virtual wealth of the community. Individualistic
economics, regarding money as wealth instead of debt,
hands over to individuals the power of issuing money, and
leaves to the taxpayer the duty of paying interest for the
issue. The State, at any time it wishes, can relieve the
taxpayer of some £MIOO a year, or 2s. 6d. in the £. It
has merely to buy back in the open market £M2,OOO of
War Loan with genuine new money to replace that created
by the banks, £ for £ of the bank credit they issue, so
enabling them to meet their liabilities at all times. The State
must recover its sole prerogative in the issue of money, and
make it impossible for the banks to issue money which
they do not possess or which has not been surrendered into
their charge by the owner as a definite time-deposit as
distinct from a deposit in current account. This would
terminate the absurdity of taxing one set of people to
prevent the currency being increased and handing over the
taxes to another set who are increasing it. The situation

A NATIONAL MONEY SYSTEM

197

is that £M2,000 is in circulation by cheque and forms part
of the total currency which determines the level of prices,
but the formal tokens acknowledging the indebtedness of
the community to the holders have not yet been issued by
the State, and no valuable consideration has been received
for them by the State. Therefore, let them be issued.
THE REMEDY.

Let us consider the nature of this transaction a little
more in detail. We have seen that the purchasing power of
the nation, as gauged by the total amount of Bank Deposits
added to the total amount of currency in circulation, was
estimated by McKenna in 1920 to be £M2,693 (p. 159).
For the purposes of illustration, we will assume that the
total amount of national money (coins and Treasury notes)
to-day is £M700, and of bank credit £1\12,000. It is of
about this order as a maximum, but does not seem to be
exactly known to the public. It is simpler to have concrete
round figures in mind, but, of course, the argument does
not depend upon the figures assumed being correct. Whatever they may be, the appropriate adjustment can be made
by the reader, as the principle only is under discussion.
The State having decided to recover its lost prerogative
of issuing money legislates to that effect, and notifies the
banks that henceforth, after a reasonable interval, they
must not lend money in current account, but only money
surrendered into their keeping for a definite period under
a proper deed of transfer or other authorised legal form.
A suitable scale of stamp duties on such deeds could be
devised, so that it was not profitable for them to be taken
out for finicking periods, in order to avoid the intentions of
the Act being made a dead letter by some new development
of the system of purely fictitious loans.
The situation then is :
(1) The banks now lose one of their sources of income
and must be conducted on the same principles as
other business services, charging their clients for
keeping their accounts.

198

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
(2) The debtors-owing the banks £M2,OOO in aggregate, and owning for the most part collateral
securities or other property against which the
loan has been issued-must either sell their securities or find someone who has the money-either
individuals or the State-genuinely to lend it to
them.
(3) The State has ultimately to issue £M2,OOO of new
national money, and with it buy back and cancel
£M2,OOO worth of National Debt.
(4) This new money has in future to be held by the
banks, £ for £ of deposits in current account, so that
instead of their keeping a safe proportion of their
depositors' money as at present, they must keep
the whole.

There is no difficulty or danger to be feared in carrying
out this operation, provided it were conducted with ordinary
financial prudence and acumen. The banks themselves
could, with the co-operation of their clients, no doubt easily
provide the whole £:M2,OOO of national securities to be
liquidated. It represents less than one-quarter of the
amount in existence, and, if they had not so much in their
possession already in the form of collateral securities, it
would be a simple Stock Exchange matter to exchange
other non-national collateral securities for them to the
requisite amount. Mr. Withers' 1 office-boy in the City
no doubt would be able to explain, if consulted.
The position, then, is that all purely fictitious loans have
been terminated. The amount of money in the country
has not been affected by the transaction, and, indeed, the
general public would only know that it had been carried out
by the consequent reduction of taxation.
The banks are now solvent in foul financial weather as
well as fair. Not a single legitimate feature of their business as moneylenders has been touched. They can lend
money at interest as before provided they, or the owners
1

Bankers and Credit, P: 200.

A NATIONAL MONEY SYSTEM

199

of the money lent, genuinely do transfer the ownership of
it to the borrower and give up the use of it. In so far as
the loans to industry were due to simple deficit of legal
tender, they will have been repaid and industry freed from
the incubus by the sale of collateral securities in the debtors'
possession. In so far as they are not, they would be
continued as genuine and legitimate transactions between
the industries and the lending public.
The way is then cleared for the future task of keeping
the index number of prices and the purchasing power of
money constant by issuing or withdrawing it, as the virtual
wealth of the community grows or diminishes. We have
dealt with how the issue could be effected. Its withdrawal,
if necessary, is the converse-the State issues a new loan
to the public and destroys the money so issued. Or,
alternatively, the State imposes ad hoc taxation destroying
the currency so obtained.
THE STILL UNSOLVED PROBLEM.

But we have still much ground to cover if we are to
understand the laws to be obeyed by a community before it
can keep its money from depreciating and its production
of wealth a maximum, so that neither capital nor labour
is voluntarily unemployed. That is a task which has
never yet been achieved, and a problem that has baffled the
entire world. It is insoluble if we permit money to vary
in purchasing power and do not distinguish between genuine
and fictitious loans. But if we say our money shall be
made of constant purchasing power and issued for that
sole end, and ensure that all loans must be genuine, we
can then easily find the general form of the law as regards
the relation between that issue and the accompanying
abstinence (genuine loans) required to tune up industry
from one level of production to a higher level until all
available capital and labour are absorbed.

CHAPTER X
THE PRINCIPLE OF VIRTUAL WEALTH
HIGH FINANCE OR HIGH TREASON 1
LET us take a breathing space, to come out from the trees
and look again at the wood. At the close of the War,
which had shaken us all out of ourselves, it did seem that
a favourable atmosphere had been created in which to
mould our national life nearer to the heart's desire. New
things were then not necessarily untrue. But now we
seem back to a resigned and fatalistic habit of mind which
regards our failures as inevitable and part of the natural
order of the universe. The upshot of our incursions into the
scientific aspect of the social question is that the monetary
system of the world is false and absurd, and that without
minute attention to this little understood mechanism for
distributing the products of industry, it is not much use
thinking about where we all want to go and the supreme
importance of our getting there. Politicians of all parties
never tire of this easy theme, but each and all seem anxious
to discuss anything and everything rather than money,
which has us all in its absolute uncontrolled grip. There is
an almost complete boycott of the subject in the Press.
It seems impossible to get any of the essential data plainly
and unequivocally made public, and for definite statistics
one usually has to go to the U.S.A. for illustration. The
British public surely has right to information about its
own system and to public and impartial inquiry and discussion concerning this new power, into whose hands it has
been delivered over without its knowledge or consent.
Science, as was plain enough to everyone during the

THE PRINCIPLE OF VIRTUAL WEALTH 201
War, is amply capable of providing more than can possibly
be required to enable everyone, able and willing to earn
their livelihood, with the opportunity to live a decent life
in healthy and adequate dwellings. The reward it should
offer for efficient work should not be ever more and more
work in competition with machinery, but leisure, honest
and well-earned, to cultivate higher faculties and live on
a less animal-like plane. True, there are plenty of people
of mediawal views, carefully fostered by lack of education
in our schools and universities, still ignorant of this, but
facts in the way of masses of unemployed, factories working
part-time, and land being allowed to go back out of cultivation, tell their own story. The conflict plainly is between
science and finance.
It is, at best, but the counterpart of the busman's holiday
to attempt to get people to devote their leisure hours to
the study of the mechanism that drives them about their
daily routine. But for all that, it is fascinating to think
of ourselves at the wheel instead of being driven. It
is the first step towards understanding the difference between
the money we all know and the high finance so few get the
opportunity to learn about. Instead of spending our whole
working energies in the endeavour to find some employment, however uncongenial, in which to exchange our
undervalued services for crisp new Treasury notes-which in
these days of mass-production cannot cost very much
more than postage-stamps to print-would it not be a
change if we woke up one morning to find somehow ourselves
running the printing machine and everyone else offering
us everything they have to give in the way of labour, services, commodities, and the produce of industry in exchange
for our coveted pieces of paper 1 High Finance has obvious
advantages considered as a vocation.
But this the unimaginative and stolid politician will
tell us is not High Finance, but High Treason against the
State. That is precisely what it has from the dawn of
history been always considered, and, before it got Britain
by the nose-if a bulldog can be said to have a nose-it

202

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

would have been thought worthy of publicity rather than
concealment.
THE PRINCIPLE OF VIRTUAL WEALTH.

Let us take a survey of ourselves as we are-many of
us priding ourselves on our hard-headed business and commerical acumen, some on our intellectual curiosity, others on
our common sense, and none of us obviously escaped lunatics.
We all of us have wants and desires of every description, which we should satisfy if only we could "afford"
it, of every degree of urgency or expediency, from a lack
of proper nourishment and raiment to a mild hankering
after a better motor-car or the latest in fashionable Russian
footwear. Yet we all carry on our persons legal claims in
the way of money to these things, and we do not exercise
our claims to these things. Rather we prefer paper tokens
setting forth various 10 or less per cent truths about
George V being, by the grace of God, King of all Great
Britain, Defender of the Faith, and Emperor of India. But
these tangible and existing tokens, which the public prefer
to the things they really need are, as it were, the small
change of commerce, almost insignificant compared with
vastly greater equally valid claims in bank accounts for
which no tokens exist.
Every one of us, as individuals, regard these monetary
holdings as at least as valuable as the actual wealth they
would exchange for. There is no compulsion in the choice
other than the individual's own preference. It is, moreover, the normal and permanent condition of society, for as
each individual in turn exercises his purchasing power and
obtains the reality in lieu of the token or credit, he merely
exchanges it with another individual, who then in turn
abstains from the wealth to which he is entitled. Though
the vast majority have none too much money, yet the
aggregate of all our individual possessions of this Virtual
Wealth is colossal. In 1920 it amounted, according to
McKenna, to two thousand seven hundred millions sterling.
As the annual total production of wealth in this country is

THE PRINCIPLE OF VIRTUAL WEALTH 203
estimated as of the same order, about £M3,OOO, it thus
appears that there is nearly a year's production of the wealth
of this country literally going begging, "glittering prizes"
waiting to be picked up by sharp brains without producing
anything whatever, and once picked up, well able to hire the
sharpest swords of law, and every other weapon that can be
bought for money right up to the nation's privately owned
Press, in its defence. If we calculate in hard cash how much
it is worth to spend in the defence of an unearned income of
some £MlOO a year, we may be sure it will not be a case of
sinking the ship for a ha'porth of tar. But this, again,
is a mere nothing compared to the power which the granting, withholding, and arbitrary cancellation of credit money
confers on those who exercise it. Only one industrialist in
the whole world, so far, Henry Ford, of motor-car fame,
has dared to brave it and has escaped bankruptcy.
It is as well to picture sometimes what crude realities
our idealism comes up against, if we wish to understand
the complete rout of the forces working for progress in the
past century, and their inability to take a step forward
without the ground beneath their feet seeming to slip
back farther than they have advanced. The world is
getting very tired of the idealist, and the contemplation of
an ever more distant goal. Surely a knowledge of the
muddled idiocies of public finance is worth many a headache to acquire, and is the first necessary step to restore
to the nations their sovereignty and inheritance.
THE VALUE OF MONEY MEASURED BY THE VIRTUAL
WEALTH.

As indicated at the end of the last chapter, our problem
falls into two distinct parts, which must not be mixed up
but must be considered in logical order. There is the
quantity of money, which must be always proportional to
the virtual wealth of the community if its purchasing
power is to be constant, and there is a very much more
complex question, the circulation of this money from hand
to hand interlocked with the endless flow of wealth from

204 WEALTH, ~IRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
production to consumption, much as in a mechanical movement known as the rack and pinion.
In a rack and pinion, each complete turn of the pinion
moves the rack a definite distance in a uniform straight
line. A stabilised currency corresponds with such a mechanism, each circulation of the money sends forward from
production to consumption or use the same quantity of
wealth. A currency of variable value corresponds with a
rack and pinion, in which the number of teeth in the pinion,
and, consequently, its diameter, are never the same, but
are continuously varying as it turns. Such a mechanism
it is mechanically impossible to make, whereas hitherto,
for reasons that will later be apparent, it has been politically
impossible to distribute wealth by means of a currency of
constant purchasing power. Violent alternations over short
periods, and an average decrease of purchasing power over
long periods, have been inevitable.
We may briefly recapitulate the position with regard to
the first part of the problem, and put some of the points
in a slightly different manner. The quantity of money in
a country is the quantity of a peculiar sort of debt that
would exist in that country if there were no money. It
is not the only sort of debt, but it is the only sort of debt
repayable in any form of purchasable wealth upon demand
at the option of the owner of the debt. There are, of
course, plenty of other sorts of debts, but they are not
repayable in wealth, but in money. So that all of them have
first to be repaid in money and then becomes repayable
in wealth in general.
Now this debt, though expressed numerically by the
sum total of the country's money, represents a deficit
of real wealth, composed of all the actual things which the
owners of the money are entitled to possess but voluntarily
go without, or abstain from possessing, to suit their business
or private affairs.
If we think of our own circumstances and the reason
why we need money and have to keep a stock of it, the
same reasons apply to the community as a whole. It

THE PRINCIPLE OF VIRTUAL WEALTH 205
suits some of the people's convenience and affairs all of
the time, and all of the people's some of the time, to be
owed rather than to possess wealth, so that they may be
at liberty to select at their own time the sort and quantity
they need at that particular moment in the market and
receive it upon demand in exchange for their money. The
quantity of wealth which it so suits a community not to
possess, though legally entitled to possession on demand,
is worth all the money in the community.
This negative quantity or shortage of wealth is termed
in this book the Virtual Wealth of the Community. We
m8,y suppose it to be G-where G means the aggregate of
goods, or real things, the community are abstaining from
possessing, and we will first assume that this dOCEl not
change. If the quantity of money in the community is
£X, each £1 is worth G/X. Now suppose-whether by the
action of the State, the banks, or of counterfeiters, it
matters not at all-the quantity of money £X is increased
in a certain ratio r to £rX, where r may be 2, 1·5, 1·1,
or any ratio whatever, greater than unity, G is now worth
£rX, and each £1 is worth G/rX. The owners of the original
£X now have claims to XG/rX or only Glr, Le. to only the
l/rth part of what they had before. The issuers of the
new money, or those to whom they pass it off, hold claims
to the rest G(l - l/r). If the State issues the new money,
it will be to pay for public expenditure which otherwise
would have to be defrayed by taxation, and if they withdraw it again from circulation it must be by imposing
taxation and destroying the money so raised. Similarly if
a bank issues it as loan credit, and cancels that credit when
the loan is repaid, instead of re-issuing it, the community
as a whole then regains in additional purchasing power of
its money what before it lost. If a counterfeiter passes it
off, what he so gains the individual, in whose possession
the bad money is ultimately found, loses. But until it
is detected, everyone in the community suffers a permanent
loss in the purchasing power of their money, and for this
reason, no doubt, the law has always regarded the uttering

206 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
of false money as a treasonable offence rather than theft,
though the actual counterfeiter gains no more in the one
case than in the other.
If, now, we regard G as growing gradually and the money
permanently and gradually increased to follow suit, so
as always to keep the purchasing power of the £1 the same
-Le. now rG/rX, which is the same as G/X-then no injustice is done to money owners, but the increase of virtual
wealth of the community is appropriated in the first place
by the taxpayer, in the second by the bank, who pass it on
to those who borrow money from them, and in the third
by the counterfeiter.
But how is G increased or diminished 1 Only by people
abstaining from possessing what they are fully entitled to
possess, without any payment of interest as reward of
abstinence, to a greater or to a lesser degree than before.
In this the desires and intentions of individuals are not at
all the same as the aggregate effects of those desires. People
may think there is too much money and that there is going
to be less, so that the price-level will fall, or too little and
that there will soon be more, so that the price-level will
rise. They may in consequence try to reduce or increase
their holdings of it, but this has clearly no effect on the
total money in existence. What they give up or acquire
others acquire or give up, and it is therefore a very complicated inquiry to ascertain under what circumstances their
desires and intentions have any effect at all on the aggregate
virtual wealth of the community and the purchasing power
of money. We may state without fear of contradiction
that, since the owners of money do not know, in general,
whether money is being increased or decreased until the
subsequent effects on the price-level manifest themselves,
the temporary effect of an increase of the quantity of
money, by conferring new virtual wealth on those before
without it, is to increase it, and conversely a decrease of
money temporarily decreases by cancellation part of the
virtual wealth. But these are only the initial effects, the
increase in the first case soon being neutralised by rise of

THE PRINCIPLE OF VIRTUAL WEALTH 207
price-level, but the decrease, in the second case, since the
price-level is reduced more slowly, is more permanent.
THE MUSICAL CHAIRS ANALOGY.

One can best illustrate this vitally important feature
of all monetary problems by a very homely analogy.
In the game of musical chairs, when the music stops the
ring of players moving round the chairs all instantaneously
try to sit, but there is always one chair less than the number
of players. This gives us easily the fundamental idea in
the institution of money. If the instantaneous state of
the nation could be similarly immobilised, there would
always exist, in addition to those in full possession and enjoyment of all the wealth in the country, others with legal
titles to demand it for whom no wealth whatever either
exists or need exist. If a nation's affairs were liable to be
wound up and the liabilities and assets apportioned, like
those of an individual, then it would be necessary for the
nation to keep in store, or put into the token itself, a quantity
of wealth equal to the quantity of money. But a nation
is a perpetual going concern. In so far as it may through
adversity have to withdraw and cancel part of its money,
it possesses through the right of taxation all that is required
for this purpose. Hence it is quite mistaken to insist
that there must be the equivalent of wealth behind a token
currency. The first essential is that the community should
not be robbed by the issue of token money in the first
instance, and that it should be put into circulation to
pay for costs that would otherwise be defrayed out of
taxation. There need not be any backing of real wealth.
What is behind the token currency is the necessity for the
members of a modern community to abstain from possessing
all the wealth to which they are entitled, in order to be able
to get what they want in the form and at the time they
require it.
The second essential is that the new money must not be
issued more rapidly than the virtual wealth of the com-

208 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
munity increases. If the issue is conducted solely according
to the desires of the State to defray expenditure without
imposing taxation, by the banks with sole regard to the
issue that yields the maximum gross amount of interest,
or by the counterfeiter to obtain the greatest quantity of
wealth for nothing, the currency is depreciated and the
creditor class is robbed. If there is no issue, or insufficient
to keep pace with the growing prosperity of the community,
the much larger debtor class is defrauded. The dead
hand of the past becomes excessive, and the payments
to the reniier an exorbitant fraction of the national income.
Labour, being without agents of production and forced
to borrow the use of them, is in the debtor class and is
permanently depressed by a fall of prices. Being also
remunerated by wages fixed largely by custom and long
term agreements, it is temporarily injured by a rise in
prices. Though, as we have seen, fixing the level of prices
is not a means of ensuring a just wage, but tends, if the
nature of the standard is misunderstood, to stabilise rates
of remuneration, yet it is absolutely essential to have a
definite standard of monetary value before any progress
at all in these further economic problems is even possible.
WHY A STANDARD IS ESSENTIAL.

If politicians decide that it is essential for easy government that people should be led or tricked along the way
they should go for their own good, and that the object in
view had best be secured by some such rapidly depreciating
standard as the gold standard, to lighten the dead hand
of the past without arousing too openly the furies of private
interest, the nation may rest assured that at the game of
deceit in money matters the politician will not prove a
match to those who have made the study of these questions
a means of personal livelihood. So for the rest of this book
we shall accept the advisability of stabilising the purchasing
power of money, with reference to the general price-level
of commodities, as an essential preliminary to any attempt

THE PRINCIPLE OF VIRTUAL WEALTH 209
to secure justice between all classes of the community.
If, then, further adjustments are required as time goes on,
it is far better that they should be made in the open by the
State's powers of suitably graduated taxation than deceitfully, and with much unnecessary transference from the
pockets of one class to another, by tampering with the
standard of value. It is understood that the standard is
essentially a debtor-creditor standard, and does not attempt
to settle the just wage. It merely clears the way for possible reform, so that, in future, each step towards progress
will not be more than offset by the ground on which we
are attempting to progress slipping backward beneath our
feet.
INDEX NUMBER.

There is no space in this book for any sufficient explanation of the methods by which economists of recent years
have been able to determine the real value of money, apart
from the large continuous variations of the value of gold.
Those who have developed the subject can best be consulted.! It is a technical study much as the absolute
standardisation of weights and measures is a highly technical
and specialised branch of science. But in the one case, as
in the other, this is not in the least a barrier to its usefulness. The fact that no ordinary person is competent to
say whether a pound weight, a yard-stick, or a quart
measure is just or unjust-and on a desert island without
any such existing measures could not reproduce them
unaided-does not prevent the use of just weights and
measures in commerce. In the end, the question as to
correctness is decided in this country by the National
Physical Laboratory, who check the sub-standards issued
to the inspectors. So one must suppose a body of statisticians, who have devoted their lives to the work, enrolled
and charged with the duty of ascertaining the general trend
of the price-level and periodically reporting their conclusions to the national authority issuing the currency.
1

Compare Irving Fisher, Purcha8ing Power of Money.

210 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
The general level of prices is a fact capable of being
ascertained by independent people without important
disagreement in their several conclusions, and it should
nowadays be as impossible for Governments secretly to
tamper with the purchasing power of money as with the
standards of weights and measures.
THE HYPOCRISY OF STANDARDISING WEIGHTS AND
MEASURES AND NOT MONEY.

If the State is to keep faith with all parties the value
of its money must remain constant. It is obviously a
pretence to set up a bureau of national standards and to
maintain an army of inspectors of weights and measures
to ensure that those who buy coals by the ton, cloth by the
yard, or beer by the gallon, shall receive the quantities which
they pay for, when the money itself which is exchanged
for these commodities buys of them more or less according
to the quantity of it that is put into circulation by purely
private lending concerns.
If the nation does not control the issue of its money, it
should give up the pretence of controlling the standards
of weights and measures. It is the very acme of hypocrisy
to enact laws against the utterers of false coins for use,
and against usurers who, however exorbitant their interest,
do, presumably, give up the money they lend, whilst allowing
a creation of the order of two thousand million pounds sterling
of new money for usury by the banks.
The only satisfactory test of the honesty of the currency
is the constancy of its average value in terms of the goods
for which it exchanges. In other words, the Index Number,
which measures the relative cost of living in terms of monetary units, should remain constant at a definite prearranged
value from century to century.
With the expansion of wealth-producing-power due
to science and invention, we have seen that if the quantity
of money in circulation were not increased, the value of
money would increase, but that-owing to the ruination

THE PRINCIPLE OF VIRTUAL WEALTH 211
of industry if it is compelled to sell its goods below cost
due to the rise in the value of money-what actually occurs
is that the shortage of money tokens paralyses industry,
and instead of prices being reduced, production is. So
that the scientific advance remains utilised, and the nation
preserves its former state as regards production with fewer
employed in the work, whereby unemployment and idle
land and factories are the result. In fact the existing inversion of science and its consequences, from internal destitution to external insecurity and the phenomenon of world
war, are the consequences of the nations not deliberately
increasing their currency FOR USE, pari passu with the
growth of their prosperity and virtual wealth.
A CURRENCY BASED ON INDEX NUMBER.
We have seen that the purchasing power of the £1 sterling
is the virtual wealth of the community divided by the total
quantity of money. Or,
Virtual Wealth = Quantity of Money X Purchasing Power
of Money.
The virtual wealth of a community refers to all the
kinds of wealth that are about to be purchased both in
consumption and production, each kind in relative amounts
the same as those actually being purchased. The Index
Number is the modern way of representing the average
price of goods in terms of the monetary unit, and the purchasing power of money is inversely proportional to the
index number at the time. Thus an index number of 230
means that prices on the average are 2·3 times what they
were at some former time, taken as a standard and given
the value 100. The purchasing power of money with an
index number of 230 is only 100/230 of what it was at the
standard purchasing power of 100. Many index numbers
are used, some concerned with wholesale prices, some with
retail prices, and some dealing not only with the cost of
commodities but including other expenses of living, as
rent, rates, and so on. What is wanted is an index that so

212 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
expresses the average money cost of the quantities of the
things required in due relative proportion to maintain an
average family, and then to keep that index number constant by regulating the currency so that always the total
cost of these definite quantities of things shall not vary,
however much they vary in price among themselves. It
does not matter greatly how the various expenses of living
are averaged in computing the index number, so long
as the index number adopted is always calculated on the
same principle and not departed from. There might be
small variations in index numbers differently computed at
the same time, but they would be of quite secondary importance. It might favour one class slightly more than another
to reckon a greater proportion of the total living expenses
going to food, for example, but the differences would be
small, sometimes one way and sometimes another. Fixing
the index number, and altering arbitrarily the total money
so as to keep the index number always the same, would
suffice for all practical purposes. Exactly how thc index
number was made up, if the averaging of the living expenses
was at all reasonably done, would be of minor importance,
and is a matter for expert discussion.
AT WHAT VALUE SHOULD MONEY BE FIXED 1

At what value to fix the index number, or rather, at
what purchasing power of the £1 sterling to call the standard
index number of 100, is, of course, of very great importance,
for thereby the community fixes the ratio in which its
income is to be in future divided as between the present
and the past. If it makes the standard correspond to a
low purchasing power of the £, it lightens the burden of its
past debts-the National Debt and similar securities or
debentures which yield a fixed monetary rate of interest,
and in general all claims which do not depend upon present
earnings. It will temporarily depress the real wages of
labour, and all professional incomes and salaries in which
the remuneration is fixed by custom and tradition, also
such services as those of transport, where the charges are

THE PRINCIPLE OF VIRTUAL WEALTH 213
fixed by statute, and will temporarily increase the profits
of those who live by buying and selling, and who receive
as profits the balance left over after working expenses
are paid. But" in the end" these will find a new level.
Society has unfortunately become recently accustomed to
large variations in the value of its money, so that the new
level would to-day be more quickly attained, whereas before
the War it would have been a long-drawn-out fight and the
cause of much injustice and hardship on those adversely
affected. But all those calls on the communal income
which derive from fixed monetary payments will not alter
in absolute amount, once the index number is fixed. As
Mr. Keynes has put it in the paragraph already quoted, in
discussing the internal affairs of France, and the future value
of the franc, but altering the words italicised to apply
to the question of the index number and to this country.
" If we look ahead, averting our eyes from the ups and
downs which can make and unmake fortunes in the meantime, the level of the £ sterling is going to be fixed not by
speculation or the balance of trade, nor even by the outcome
of the return to the gold-standard, but by the proportion of
his earned income which the British taxpayer will permit
to be taken from him to pay the claims of the British rentier.
The level of the £ sterling will continue to fall until the
commodity value of the pounds due to the rentier has fallen
to a proportion of the national income, which accords with
the habits and mentality of the country."
The times are highly abnormal, and it may not be yet
possible to do more than provisionally to fix the price-level.
But, even so, it would be a great political advantage if this
vital question could be decided openly and above board,
and due and sufficient notice given of the nature of any
future change of price-level if that should prove necessary.
This and the issue of the money are the nation's affair, not
the bank's. It is their function to keep accounts and lend
money, not to create it, and so determine price-level. In
practice their interests are purely those of the creditor
class, and although under the system they cannot help

214 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
raising the price-level by their fictitious loans, they are
always striving to force it back, though their decisions
invariably condemn those, who have staked their fortunes
upon producing the things which the community needs, to
loss if not ruin, and the community to an artificially increased burden of indebtedness.
If the price-level is held constant, money values express
real values, and the total quantity of money accurately
expresses the virtual wealth of the community.
RELATION BETWEEN PRICE AND GOODS.

Thus although at first sight a highly curious and uncertain quantity, virtual wealth is a very definite one, and
its measurement presents no real difficulty. With constant quantity of money, it is proportional to the purchasing
power of the money or inversely proportional to the index
number of price-level. With constant index number of
price-level it is measured by the quantity of money. Its use
avoids certain difficulties which beset the quantity theory
of money, which we have seen only works in practice one
way. The latter pretends to correlate price not only with
the quantity of money, but also with the positive quantity
of existing goods, rather than with the negative quantity of
goods abstained from, though whether the quantity which
affects the price is the total quantity, the quantity of
stocks in course of production as well as already produced,
or the quantity actually in the market awaiting sale at the
moment, is not made clear.
In reality it correlates price with the amount of money
expended on the goods bought and sold in a year, which is a
definition rather than an explanation of price, and the
amount of money expended on goods in a year with
the quantity of money and the number of times it is
expended, which again is repetitional. It establishes no
other relation whatever between price and goods, be) ond
that in the equation
Price = Money expended -:- Goods sold and purchased.

THE PRINCIPLE OF VIRTUAL WEALTH 215
Whereas the virtual wealth is quite independent of this
complication, as itself, like the quantity of money which it
measures the value of, it is a quantity and not a rate. The
causes that produce a change of virtual wealth are largely
psychological. This is sometimes recognised in the statement that it is only the quantity of money in circulation
that can affect prices, and that the part hoarded cannot
exert any influence. But there is by no means any sharp
difference. A manufacturer is always deciding from day
to day the question whether to hoard or spend in his business, and precisely similar questions affect every individual
purchaser.
There can be no dispute that the value of money is
determined and can only be affected by the quantities of
goods people in the aggregate voluntarily abstain from
enjoying, and only indirectly by the quantities in the market
for sale. But this view does not even pretend to answer
the further question how the goods offered for sale affect
people's incomes either real or monetary, except in so far
as to suggest that habit and necessity will at any particular
period prescribe some most convenient ratio between
virtual wealth and income, which, if disturbed, will tend
to come back to its original value.
VIRTUAL "VEALTH :\~D INCOi\IES.

\Ve shall make no exhaustive attempt here to analyse
virtual wealth, but shall treat it as a fact capable of
measurement by the price-level. But it may be of help
to trace further the consequences of individuals trying to
increase or decrease their virtual wealth.
To simplify the issue, let us suppose the total quantity
of money is unchanged, and consider a purchaser deciding
that, in future, instead of keeping ill the house, or the bank,
money sufficient on the average for a month's housekeeping,
he will keep only enough for a week. He consequently
buys at once three weeks' supplies. and that is all he can
do. If the shopkeepers took no action, all that would have

216

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

occurred would have been that the buyer's individual
virtual wealth had decreased, but that of other people had
increased to the same" extent, and there would he no change.
But if the shopkeepers refused to retain the extra money,
and passed it on, and even if everyone equally tried to
reduce his virtual wealth, then it must not be rashly assumed
that the virtual wealth of the community as a whole would
have diminished. We must remember the musical chair
analogy. Individuals may balance the pleasures of the
table against the moral and sesthetic satisfaction that is
engendered by gloating over crisp exemplars of the art of
engraving, but for the community it is a case of Hobson's
choice. Someone has got to own all the money in the
community, and not own the wealth it can buy, whether
they want to or not. The speed or reluctance with which
they pass it on, or grudgingly part with it, to others less
or more clever or fortunate than themselves, does not
necessarily affect the virtual wealth or the purchasing power
of money.
Thus with the total money constant, the desire to pass
off money more quickly than before, if general, means that
people on the whole receive it more quickly than before.
Their monetary incomes increase, but whether their real
incomes increase or not depends upon whether the quickened
demand operates to increase the supplies. I t has this
tendency, for the retailer finding his stocks depleted wiII
order more, thus transmitting the stimulus of demand, so
that more goods are produced, more wages and profits
earned, and the money comes round more quickly to purchase the increased production. But, in general, there
would probably be some rise of price as well, and to this
extent, a consequent decrease of the aggregate virtual
wealth along with some increase of real incomes, caused by
the desire of everyone to diminish their virtual wealth.
Conversely a general desire to increase virtual wealth
tends to increase it, but it also diminishes money incomes
and to a smaller extent, probably, real incomes.
This point of view certainly brings out vividly the effect

THE PRINCIPLE OF VIRTUAL WEALTH 217
of everyone's desire to possess more money. The only
way for everyone to possess more money is to increase the
total quantity of money. If this is not done, the desire
operates to reduce the national monetary income. Most
people are beginning to realise that life itself is not a quantity
but a rate, and that it is far more important to possess a
big income than a large sum of money. If all people acted
oppositely to their natural inclinations, and refused to retain
any money a moment longer than they could help, the
national monetary income would thereby be increased.
Whilst the desire to possess more or less money cannot
affect the total quantity of money, it can and does affect
incomes in the opposite sense; the more freely the nation
spends money the more money it has to spend, and the less
freely it spends the less it has to spend. The universal
desire to possess money is not to be confused with the desire
for leisure and the disinclination to work, but is its exact
opposite. People who possess money and desire to continue possessing it have to forgo spending it faster than
they are receiving it. Those who will work only under the
stimulus of an empty larder are trying to reduce their
money, i.e. their virtual wealth, to a minimum. Under
the system described, individuals would be free to keep as
much or as little money precisely as they chose without
interfering in the least with the circulation of money or the
production of wealth. It would be possible to make the
latter a maximum, so that neither labour nor capital was
unemployed, however avaricious people were, and loth to
pass on the money they received.
HOARDING AND MUTUAL CREDIT.

If the price-level, rather than the quantity of money,
is kept constant, two of the main factors which affect the
virtual wealth of a country, in opposite directions, are
first, hoarding, which increases it, and secondly, mutual
credit or lending, which diminishes it. Under a precious
metal currency the first is an evil and the second a benefit,

218

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

but under a stabilised paper currency the position is
reversed. We have seen that the only part of the nation's
credit different from an individual's power of running into
debt is the virtual wealth. To increase the latter means that
people voluntarily abstain to a greater extent than before,
which enables, and indeed should compel, the nation to pay
part of its expenses by the issue of new money. Hoarding as
a practice increases the virtual wealth and enables the nation
to that extent to run into debt without paying interest.
Clearly when a miser's hoards are put back into circulation
the virtual wealth is diminished to this extent. In the
opposite category, the much vaunted financial expedients
in the economising of money diminish the virtual wealth
and the quantity of money corresponding with a given
price-level.
It is instructive to consider a simplified example. If
we take the case of an agriculturist and his annual crops,
and suppose that, just before his harvest, he has no money
and no wealth, finished and ready for sale. When the
harvest is reaped he has, say, !EH, when it is sold he has
£H, and for a year this sum then steadily diminishes till at
the next harvest it is zero again. Now bring in a merchant
agreeing with the farmer to give one another mutual credit,
so that just before the harvest the farmer instead of having
no money owes the merchant £H/2. The merchant from
the sale of last year's harvest would have fH, but as the
farmer owes him fH/2, has only fH/2. The harvest when
reaped is thus now sold by the farmer to the merchant
for £H/2. Half-way through the year the farmer has exhausted hi!'! money, and the merchant has sold half the
crop for £H/2, which he lends again to the farmer. In this
way only half as much money is necessary as would have
been required but for mutual credit. If, again, the farmer
parts with his crop, half to repay a debt of £HJ2, quarter
for payment of £H/i, and gives the merchant credit for
the remaining £H/4, clearly only one-fourth as much money
as before is required. These mutual arrangements between
individuals take the place of the precisely similar ones

THE PRINCIPLE OF VIRTUAL WEALTH 219
between the individual and the community, which the
institution of money effects. It is one thing to regard as
beneficent such methods of economising in the use of currency, when its provision entailed much waste of labour
in the search for the precious metals, but quite another
when, without any labour at all, people can be released
from the necessity of contracting such mutual indebtedness
and given the comfort of owing nothing to anybody by the
right use of paper money. Bilgram (loc. cit.) estimates
the sum total of debts on which interest must be paid as
probably four times the amount of currency, including
deposit currency, in use in the U.S.A., and that the yearly
interest payments "absorb" more than a quarter of the
whole currency. This is no doubt excellent from the
creditors' standpoint, but there can be little doubt also
that the debtors would prefer and be less fleeced under a
system where the money was not so overworked.
AN ANALOGY TO THE GOVERNOR OF A STEAM ENGINE.

Fortunately it is entirely unnecessary to go further
into all these complicated paradoxes. " We should be lost
in endless calculations." It is as manifest an absurdity
to try to calculate the precise effect of all the relevant
circumstances upon the general price-level, as to calculate
the effect on the speed of a steam engine of each unknown
variation from moment to moment in the load, the lubrication, and the supply of steam. Nevertheless, the speed
of a steam engine is regulated automatically with the utmost
ease. The speed of the engine, which is the integrated and
determinable result of every factor which operates in the
working of the engine, itself, by means of a governor, opens
or closes the throttle admitting steam, opening it should
the speed fall off, and closing it should the speed increase.
On this analogy, the price is the integrated and determinable result of all the separate and indeterminable factors
which affect the working of the industrial system and the
virtual wealth of the community. It is measured by the

220 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
index number which expresses the cost of living in monetary
units. A governor of price-levels would increase the currency in circulation gradually as the industrial machine
was given a larger and larger load, just as the governor of a
steam engine under the same conditions would gradually
increase the quantity of steam admitted from the boiler.
When the maximum amount of wealth the industrial
system can produce is being produced, just as when the
maximum amount of steam the boiler can furnish is being
used, a larger demand will raise prices in the one case and
reduce the speed in the other.
A REPLY TO SOME MISUNDERSTANDINGS.

We must, in contemplating the proposed system, shake
off some of the illusions induced by the experiences of the
operation of the old system. It is undeniable that wealth
could be increased, and that millions of workers, much unemployed land and capital are waiting financial permission
to increase production. It is undeniable that science has increased, and still is increasing, the factor of human efficiency
in producing wealth. It is undeniable that an increase in
the quantity of money in circulation without a corresponding increase in the rate of wealth-production does increase
prices. But the experience that it is practically impossible
to reduce prices by contracting the currency, without at
the same time contracting production and ruining those
engaged in industry, is derived from our haphazard system.
By hypothesis, on the new system prices are kept constant, so far as any variation of them is detectable by its
effect on index number. Skilled statisticians would detect
the tendency to rise or fall before the public became aware
of it in their marketing, just as the governor of a steam
engine detects the tendency for the speed to increase or
diminish before it can be ascertained by the eye or otherwise
than by a very delicate instrument. The reasons why a
contraction of the currency does not, in fact, reduce prices
do not operate when prices are maintained constant by an

THE PRINCIPLE OF VIRTUAL WEALTH 221
automatic regulation of the currency by index number.
Industry is ruined not by the constancy of prices, but by
their fall, by stocks becoming unsaleable except below
cost. A contraction of the currency to check an upward
tendency of prices would ruin nobody, though after the
upward tendency has occurred, the contraction is powerless
to bring them down again without imposing still graver
evils.
Hence, although there is every reason to suppose, so
long at least as science and invention continue to develop,
that the task of the statisticians advising as to the volume
of currency the nation required, would be at first, and for
a long time, the easy task of advising the issue of more
money, should the necessity arise for them to advise a contraction of the currency, there is no reason to anticipate the
"evil effects that now attend the contraction of the currency
after prices have already greatly risen.
In an age of scientific expansion and powerful incentives
towards "saving," a time of rising prices, under a free
monetary system, implies a time of war, civil commotion,
pestilence or famine, whereby the revenue of wealth falls
off, not, as at present, a time of boom and speculation, due
to the quantity of money being arbitrarily increased. Of
course to the speculator and profiteer, although probably
not to the solid business man, if any such remain, the
system will naturally appear to work the wrong way. So
far from a time of rising prices being regarded as a calamity
to be avoided at all costs, it will be regarded as a time of
expansive prosperity. Mr. Hartley Withers, discussing the
writer's proposals, makes this illuminating comment.!
After approving of the plan of issuing the new money
required to maintain the constancy of prices, by repurchasing and destroying the equivalent amount of State
Debt, as "a simple and inexpensive operation," he proceeds:
" But when it is the other way about, and debt is issued
so as to contract currency at a time of rising prices, the
1

Bankers and Credit, p. 244.

222 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
process seems likely to be both expensive and unpopular.
No use could be made by the Government of the currency
received from subscribers to the new loan; it would have
to be destroyed to carry out the scheme, and so the operation would be dead loss; at a time of expansive prosperity
implied by the circumstances, the Government would probably have to pay a handsome rate to get its loan out, and
it would have to lay this sacrifice on the shoulders of the
taxpayer, knowing that thereby, if the measure succeeded,
it would be checking the rise of prices that makes the
business world so happy."
It is a curious commentary upon the writer's thesis
that what is wrong with the ruling classes of the world is
that they begin by mistaking debt for wealth, and end by
regarding scarcity as expansive prosperity. At the same
time the passage illustrates the almost incredible state of
fog in the minds of those supposed to be financial experts
when matters of national rather than of individual finance
are under consideration. To redeem National Debt is an
act of financial rectitude, provided for by honest Chancellors
of the Exchequer by the Sinking Fund, into which any excess
of money extracted by taxation automatically flows. But
to destroy Treasury notes extracted by the same process is
"dead loss." It makes one wonder whether those who are
responsible for the Nation's finances realise that National
securities and money are both wealth from the standpoint
of the individual owner and both debt from the standpoint
of the community. The only difference is that the one is a
deferred debt, not repayable on demand, and the other a
debt repayable in wealth on demand.

CHAPTER XI
THE RIDDLE

OF THE SPHINX

A 'SYMBOLISM FOR REPRESENTING ECONOMIC
TRANSACTIONS.

WE have gradually drawn in the threads of our analysis
of the nature of money and wealth to the point where it
is necessary to try to obtain a mental picture of the
economic system as a whole and how it works. What is
now required is a simple and informative symbolism or
shorthand to represent sufficiently accurately the industrial
system and the chief economic processes of production,
exchange, and consumption.
Those unfamiliar with the mathematical sciences may
be unaware how powerful a weapon of research a correct
and informative symbolism is. With regard to the simple
operations of arithmetic, without our systems of figuring,
a life-time's study would hardly be too much. Before the
days of the Arabic numerals-which were really invented
by the Hindus-with its system of nine figures and a zero,
the operations of multiplication and division used to be
performed by an elaborate system of empirical rules upon
a calculating frame known as the "abacus." The most
proficient professional calculators after a life-time at the
work could not attain to the standard reached under the
modern system by a school-boy or girl of ten. Something
of the same state of things applies in economics.
For lack of simple means of expressing the operations
of industry and commerce, chiefly so as to keep on record
the totality of the important facts, during the changes of
ownership of which they essentially consist, even elementary

224 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
consequences, such as arise, for example, from the continuous circulation of money, are apt to be unforeseen
until they occur. The difficulty is not reduced but rather
increased by the fact that almost everyone knows and
understands one aspect of the system quite thoroughly.
It is necessary rather to see the whole at one glance. The
first step is to represent the changes of ownership that
occur in barter. This may be done as shown in Fig. 2.
Thick broken lines are used to indicate the flow of wealth
with the arrow pointing from production to consumption.
Barter would then be represented as in the figure, where
two such streams of wealth are shown meeting at a mart, A,
in which the individual owner of one kind of wealth detaches
himself from it and attaches himself to the other kind of
wealth. The paths of the owners arriving at the mart
with one kind and going off with another kind of wealth
are thus shown by thin lines beside the streams of wealth.
The institution of money enables exchange of ownership
to take place with only one kind of wealth, whereas barter
demands that two kinds should meet at the same place
and the same time. To represent money unbroken thick
lines will be used, the arrows indicating the direction in
which the money is circulating. This is shown in Fig. 3,
which represents the owner of the money, or buyer,
detaching himself at the mart, A, from the money and
attaching himself to the wealth, and the owner of the
wealth, or seller, attaching himself to the money and
detaching himself from the wealth. Money lines are
necessarily, in the final result, closed paths, the same
money circulating and not, like the wealth, flowing continuously on.
The next diagram (Fig. 4) represents commerce, in which
the buyer of wealth for consumption, or consumer, buys
thrnogh a middleman or merchant, and the producer of
wealth for money sells through the same middleman. The
path of the wealth is continuous, but it now flows through
two marts, A and B, where it is met by the money stream.
After the first meeting, A, the money stream bifurcates.

Path

Path of
Consumu

....

0",,,,," l'"
I
~if

\\

,

\

\

,

I
\

t ~

:i

I

I

I

/\
Ii!\
'A'

I \

I

,
'"

I

I

""'h I
II~ I

\

Palh

QJ

\

O",n~r

\.)

lA

•

III

I
I

\

...

~1:

~

:1' ~

.g

I

I

-;.

I

~~

~ l
I

"

BJ\RnR.

SALE

COMMERCE

Fig. 2

Flg.3

Fig. 4

.",.". I

I::

f

()

AN
ECONOMIC
SYMBOLISM
MONEY·

-----....
WEALTH

t

III

1Il

~
(J
::s

Cl

~):

~

-e

::J

III

f.

I/J
~

~

...0:

0

\J

Cl

a
~

~

~

~ Fa

'<;

DITTO
ABBREVIATED

lltE MONETARY CIRCULATION

PRODucnON
Fig.5.

rt\

PRODUCnON

\
SAW:

fig. 7

Fig.e.

2

}

~

LOAN

IUPAYHLliT

"3
---::..-~)
(

fig.B.

...

/JlVUTMDiT

~

L:b
REAlJSKTIQN

226 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
The money arrives at the retail mart A in the pocket of the
consumer, and leaves in the pocket of the middleman.
Part only goes on to the wholesale mart B and buys wealth
from the producer. Another part, representing the merchant's expenses and profits, doubles back at once to the
consumers' mart A. The business path of the merchant
is a closed one, travelling with wealth and without money
and then with money and without wealth in an endless
round, inside the productive system. It is difficult to
represent the merchant himself in two places at once, but
we may overcome the difficulty by supposing that it is
his wife and family who trot off to the consumers' mart
at A again with the profits earned, in order to purehase
the necessaries of life. The whole monetary system is It
system of similar closed paths interlocking with the flow
of wealth. But the further repetition of the processes of
exchange, and of a queue of middlemen travelling in closed
curves, down the wealth stream with wealth and down
the money stream with money, would add nothing new to
the representation of the process beyond what is depicted
in Fig. 4.
It will serve our purpose sufficiently well to represent
the production of wealth in exactly the same way as
occurring in a factory, C (Fig. 5), where a stream of money
owned by the manufacturer is paid out as wages and
originates the flow of wealth out of the raw materials and
natural energies of the globe. We have already given
(Chapter VI) an electrical analogy of the process, but
for present purposes this extremely simple diagrammatic
representation is sufficient. We distinguish money inside
the production system in the ownership of merchants and
producers in the streams flowing from A to B to C, from
that outside the system in the hands of consumers in the
streams that all converge at A, the consumers' mart.
Naturally there may be any number of marts or factories,
or combinations of the two, in which wealth is taken in
from a previous factory and an additional process performed on it before it is passed on to the next. If now,

THE RIDDLE OF THE SPHINX

227

understanding the symbolism, we simplify further by
leaving out the wealth stream altogether, we shall arrive
at something like Fig. 6, representing the monetary circulation only, in which on the left of the diagram the money
is in the hands of consumers outside the system and on
the right in the hands of producers and merchants inside
the system. It is simply a series of closed circuits, all
flowing together through the consumers' mart M into the
productive system and out of the productive system through
a number of wholesale marts and factories, as indicated
in the diagram by F, in an endless round. Still further
familiarity with the symbolism will cause a still further
simplification to something like Fig. 7, where the closed
circle represents the clockwise circulation of money, divided
by the vertical line into two sides, the consumers' and
producers' sides, and connected by a horizontal" by-pass"
for transferring money from one side to the other.
THE SYSTEM IN EQUILIBRIUM.

We will first consider such a system of production
operating in a steady or "equilibrium" state under a
constant price-level, so that monetary quantities form a
true measure of average wealth quantities. That is to say,
we suppose that there is established a certain unchanging
distribution of the money inside and outside the system,
and a certain unchanging quantity of wealth in all stages
of manufacture from start to finish in the system, and a
certain unchanging quantity of still unconsumed wealth
in the possession of the consumers. We do not mean to
say that the money or the wealth are stagnant. An
equilibrium condition is simply one for which, if we took
two instantaneous photographs at different times, they
would show the same result. Though production and
consumption are going on at full speed all the time, they
reach the point at which they balance, and though the
circulation of money is going on all the time, at any instant
as much flows into any part of the circuits as flows out.

228

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

Then we need not postulate anything at all about what
this equilibrium condition may be. We are solely concerned with the effects of changes from that condition reckoned
as the datum-line, or starting-point. We are dealing, at
this stage, solely with the monetary system as a closed
circulation, and, until the implications of this are clear,
many further questions, which usually are the only ones
considered, cannot be considered at all. Our studies are
at first entirely independent of the question as to how the
wealth and money are distributed, as between wages,
salaries, profits and interest. Even if we leave these
questions entirely alone, and accept the distribution, whatever it may be, as a fact, without asking whether prices
are fair or exorbitant and services paid for real or imaginary,
we have still a good deal left to understand about the
working of the monetary system.
At first, for simplicity, we shall also take no account
of the equally important question whether permanent or
perishable wealth is being produced, but will rather assume
that, as is at the moment true, the community has both
unemployed labour and capital to bring into productive
operation. That is, we shall assume that fluid or consumable wealth, which actually does flow out of the system
at the consumers' mart, is being produced, in contradistinction to capital or fixed wealth, which remains in
the industrial system and never comes out at all. Or, on
the analogy to a water system, we shall at first assume the
mains to be capable of distributing a larger volume of
water without enlargement. The relative share of the
product secured by the workers as wages, by the employer
or merchant as profits, and by the moneylenders as interest,
may be neglected. The effect on the system is independent
of whether the money arriving at the consumers' mart
comes as wages, profits or interest. In many cases, when
points dealing merely with the general principles that
must be observed for the money to circulate the flow of
wealth, all three may be combined as "price." With such
simplification, it obviously does not matter whether a

THE RIDDLE OF THE SPHINX

229

manufacturer is borrowing money or not, so long as it is
genuinely borrowed and not created. It is sufficient to
represent his profits as divided between himself and his
creditor, if he is carrying on his business on borrowed
money.
" PRICE" IS DISTRIBUTED AS WELL AS EXTRACTED.

The next point is that, since we are making no assumptions whatever as to how the elements of cost are made
up, there is no distinction whatever between cost price,
sale price, wholesale price, retail price, and so on. Every
£1 that leaves the circuit at F does so as wages, salaries,
profits, interest, or other payments for services, real or
imaginary. At a constant price-level on the average it
puts into the system 1£1, and needs the passage of £1 at M
to take it out again. At most we commit an error in the
sequence of events thereby. Thus, if we consider some
quantity !EX that has been put into the system-and for
which £X has been paid out as wages and salaries at Fto be spoiled or destroyed within the system and never to
come out at all, it is made good by a corresponding diminution of the manufacturers' or merchants' subsequent profits.
If we suppose that there occurs, because of some speculative
cause, a rise in the sale prices of certain goods in the
system-and on a constant price-level a lowering in consequence of the price of the other things-more profits
than otherwise flow out of the system in that case and less
in others. We are, in fact, defining cost not merely as price
paid by the consumer to take out wealth from the system,
but equally as price paid to the producer for putting it in.
In the long run, if there is no change of the quantity of
money or in the state of the system, every passage of
money at M is balanced by an equal passage at F. The
one is the measure of the wealth taken out and the other
of that put into the system. If the price-level does not
vary, then not only is the monetary value of the stocks
of fluid manufactured and partly manufactured wealth in
the system, in an equilibrium condition, constant, but

230 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
also the actual average quantities of wealth are also
constant.

How TO INCREASE PRODUCTION.
We are now entering upon a series of inquiries which
never before seem to have been properly investigated, but
which are vital, once we have the courage of our convictions that in a modern industrialised state in a scientific
era the production of wealth for consumption is physically
almost indefinitely extensible. We wish to find out precisely how a given level or volume of production can be
changed to a higher level. We make the necessary stipulation that the price-level shall remain constant during the
operation and that there shall be no fictitious lending.
The increases in the total quantity of money are to be
made by the nation in accordance with the price-level as
the indicator. Clearly the easiest way of rebutting the
assertions that bank credit and fictitious loans, if issued for
production and not for consumption, do not raise prices,
is first to find the conditions under which prices are not
changed in changing from one level of production to another.
So little do the professional economists ever seem to
have envisaged the continuous circulation of money that
puerile and fanciful distinctions are made as to the effects
of putting money into the system at different points of
the circuit and with different psychological intentions, in
general to stimulate either "production" or "consumption." These usually amount to no more than this, that
in the first case new wealth is produced against the new
money and therefore prices cannot rise, whereas in the
second the new money encourages consumption and therefore prices must rise.
When we stipulate, as the first essential, that prices
shall remain constant, irrespective of the changes of the
flow of money and of goods, we shall find our system
most extraordinarily obstinate. It requires about the same
amount of patience and intelligence as the solution of a
cross-word puzzle or an acrostic to find the solution of

THE RIDDLE OF THE SPHINX

231

the problems we are to put to it. In the very condensed
forms shown, the diagrams (Figs. 6 and 7) are capable of
yielding much information. The reader is advised to draw
them out on large-scale paper, and with a few different
coloured counters or different kinds of matches, representing wealth and money, to try for himself the effect of
any proposed scheme for rehabilitating industry. Much
less would then be left for still unexploded authority to
pronounce upon ex cathedra.
Here are some useful principles that will be found to
emerge as the result of such trials.
THE

SIX POSSIBLE OPERATIONS.

Six different types of operation are possible.
Two, consumption and production, which alter the
wealth and money in 1 the system in opposite directions,
leaving their sum total unchanged.
Two, simple transferences of money from consumers to
producers, or vice versa, which leave the wealth in the
system unchanged.
Two, combinations of the above which increase and
decrease the wealth in the system, leaving the money
unchanged.
These are set forth and symbolised in Fig. 8 :
(1) Sale for consumption, in which the wealth in the
system is decreased and the money increased 1£ for £
(2) Production for wages, etc., in which the wealth in
the system is increased and the money decreased 1!, for £.
The combination of (1) and (2) to equal extents leaves
both the wealth and the money in the system unchanged.
(3) The sinking of money in industry, preparatory to
increasing production.
(4) Withdrawal of money from industry, after ceasing
from production.
(5) Combination of (3) and (2), whereby the wealth in
the system is increased and the money unchanged.
(6) Combination of (1) and (4), whereby the wealth in
the system is decreased and the money unchanged.
1

For the meaning of .. in the system" see p. 226.

232

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

Operations (1) and (2)-in which wealth and money
exchange £ for ,g, leaving the sum total, Wealth + Money,
completely unaffected-s-can effect only temporary fluctuations or oscillations without lasting effect upon the equilibrium conditions of the system. The rest, which permanently increase or decrease the volume of production, are
in sharp contradistinction, and are the operations important
to our inquiry.
For let us suppose, with constant price-level, production
is speeded up beyond the normal. A glut of goods and
shortage of money occurs in the industrial system. Again,
an increase of consumption leads to a shortage of money
among consumers. To speed up both equally there must
be a more copious circulation of money than before, and this
means either more money and more wealth in process of
manufacture or an actual shortening of the time required
for production, which is a natural period, not an arbitrary
one, and a shortening of the time taken for the money to
circulate once round the system, which again is a very
conservative period.
That is to say, not only in the production of wealth,
but also in the circulation of money, the times and quantities
are severally of importance. The physical facts are not
sufficiently expressed merely by their ratio. It may be
correct to speak of the production of wheat as BO many
bushels a second, but we must not so lose sight of the fact
that the natural period in which to express the quantity
produced is, in this country at least, one year. So for
every kind of wealth there is a natural period of production
which cannot be curtailed, however much it may be
extended. In the circulation of money we have also not
merely a rate of flow in which £1 a day is identical with
£365 a year.! Especially where the money passes out of
the industrial system into the consumers' pockets we have
1 The" velocity of circulation," or rapidity of turnover, in the quantity
theory of money-which is simply the average number of times the total
money changes hands in a year-seems to have no important significance
whatever. A more natural period would be the average period of complete circulation back to the starting-point.

THE RIDDLE OF THE SPHINX

233

a succession of jumps-pecunia facit saltum. Profits are
distributed quarterly, half-yearly or yearly; wages weekly,
fortnightly or monthly; and so on. If we tried to make
a system in equilibrium work at double rate, not only
would there necessarily result a permanent deficit of
finished wealth for sale;' but everyone in receipt of monetary
income would have to be paid on the average as much as
before twice as often as before. Otherwise there would be
a shortage of money.
THE NECESSARY QUANTITY OF MONEY.

Let us go back to the consideration of a system in
stable equilibrium and suppose that all consumption and
purchase at M for consumption is suddenly stopped, but
production allowed to go on until all the money in the
industrial system is drained out through F. Then all the
money is outside the system. Again, suppose the opposite
-consumption and production stopped, but purchase for
consumption going on at M until all the money is drained
out of the consumers' pockets into the industrial system.
Then all the money is inside the system. Neither operation
affects the sum total of money
wealth, either (1) in the
industrial system, or (2) outside of it. The imaginary
operations merely serve to separate wealth and money and
to put all the one on one side and all the other on the other.
In an ideal system, probably, the quantity of money should
be equal to that of the finished wealth. If with the last
halfpenny drained out of the consumers' pockets there is
any finished wealth at all in the industrial system, there
is no money to buy it, and therefore the system is overstocked. If with all the money in the consumers' pockets
there is more or less finished wealth than this to be purchased
in the industrial system, either the excess of wealth or of
money cannot be exchanged, or, if exchange were effected,
constancy of prices could not be maintained.
These considerations give us an idea of the correct

+

1

Proved on p. 235.

234 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
quantity of money in a simple state of things where money
and wealth always change hands £ for 1£. This quantity
should be equal to the total stocks of finished wealth in
and outside the system-those awaiting sale in the consumers' mart plus those already bought and not consumed.
We may call it £Q or 'iQ. It is affected, in practice, by
hoarding and the granting of mutual credit in opposite
directions. But the money must bear some definite ratio
to the wealth. For simplicity at first we shall neglect
these factors. In such a simple system the quantity of
money inside the system is equal to the quantity of still
unconsumed wealth outside the system, and the quantity
of finished wealth inside the system is equal to the quantity
of money outside the system. So that if consumers have
£X, they will have £(Q - X) unconsumed, and the producers will have £(Q - X) and '!£X ready for sale. Q being
constant, X, as we have seen, may fluctuate without
seriously affecting the system.
THE EFFECT OF INCREASING MONEY.

We will first try to see in a broad way the effect of
merely increasing the quantity of money in the system,
neglecting the minutill3 concerning the way the new money
is issued and the particular point in the circulation at
which it is introduced. The point is fundamental, and it
is very essential to understand clearly what, with an unchanging price-level, would actually happen. We will
simplify the process of production by distinguishing finished
wealth ready for sale and unfinished or semi-manufactured
wealth, and we will call the average time required from
start to finish for the wealth being produced T weeks.
We will suppose that, through a doubling of the money.
a system in equilibrium doubles its production and consumption. If it were producing !EA and spending £A per
week on consumption before, it now produces and consumes ,£2A per week. The first week puts in an additional llA of unfinished wealth and takes out the same

THE RIDDLE OF THE SPHINX

235

quantity of finished wealth. After T weeks its stocks
of finished wealth are '!EAT below the former equilibrium
level, whilst its stocks of unfinished wealth are !EAT
above it. Assuming these necessary finished stocks exist,
it might be thought that the danger of shortage had
been avoided, as from now on, after the (T + l)th week,
one !EA additional finished wealth weekly appears for sale.
But that is not so. For, ever after, stocks of finished
wealth remain !EAT below the former equilibrium value
and stocks of unfinished wealth 1l!,AT above it, whereas
the new equilibrium of production and consumption
requires that finished stocks should be doubled. The
community, in fact, must permanently put up with less
stocks of wealth for consumption than it had before increasing consumption; and these can never be made up
so long as we confine our operation to types (1) and (2),
the simple exchange of wealth and money.
THE NEED OF ABSTINENCE OR SAV(NG.

We may now consider how the stocks of money and
wealth in the production system are increased and
diminished. The normal circulation of money leaves them,
as we have seen, unaffected, for each £1 passing in and
1fl passing out at M, £1 passes out and 1fl passes in at F.
To increase them the flow of money must be by-passed,
as it were, from outside to inside the system without passing
through the consumers' mart. This money then flows in
without taking out any wealth, and flows out putting in
wealth, whereby the stocks increase.
This process we have already symbolised by ~
This by-passing of the consumers' mart may be effected
in various ways, all alike, however, in requiring genuine
abstinence from consumption. Someone on the way to the
mart to purchase supplies must be induced to lend his money
to the industrialist and abstain from his customary consumption to that extent. More simply still, the industrialist himself may forgo profits, and, instead of dis-

236 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
tributing them, put them back into his business with the
same result. In either case the manufacturer increases his
production, takes on more workers and diminishes unemployment by passing out the money loaned as wages, etc.,
so putting the equivalent of wealth into the system. If
neither the lending public nor the producers can be induced
to abstain from consumption for such a purpose, they can
be taxed. Hitherto, however, taxation never seems to
have been designed for any purpose other than the payment
of Government expenditure. This obviously is merely a
transference of purchasing power from the pockets of one
set of consumers to those of another, quite futile for our
purpose. But if the proceeds of the tax were not used
to defray Government expenses, but lent to the producers,
it would effect the object arrived at. Again, a Government
loan might be raised from the public in lieu of imposing
taxation and the proceeds lent to the producers. But
struggle with this puzzle how we may, there is no escape
from the initial abstinence if a productive system is to be
built up from a lower to a higher level of production. We
shall later revert to the probable consequences of trying
to avoid this initial abstinence.
We are dealing with the effect produced on an equilibrium
condition by arbitrarily altering one of" the factors at a
time. Abstinence from consumption alone is capable of
increasing the stocks of wealth in the system. Similarly,
if we "by-pass" the factory and transfer money to the
consumer's pocket without passing through the productive
system, quite obviously to this extent we drain the equivalent wealth out of the stocks in the industrial system.
This is abstinence from production. It has been symbolised
by

~, and

normally results

from

a

producer

retiring from business.
THE PROBLEM SOLVED.

Now let us try to envisage the initial and final equilibrium states of the system in which production and con-

THE RIDDLE OF THE SPHINX

237

sumption have been increased by some factor greater
than unity-call it r. That is now £r X are to be produced
and consumed in the same time as 'If,X were. Clearly
everything must be altered by the factor r. If before
£Q sufficed, now we must have £rQ, and so £Q(r - 1) of
new money must be issued, Before consumers had £X
and £(Q - X) still unconsumed, producers £(Q - X) and
'If,X for sale. Before, also there was some quantitycall it is-of semi-manufactured wealth in the system.
Now these quantities must all be multiplied by 1'. We
have postulated a system in which certain quantities
came into a definite relation as the result of experience teaching each individual concerned the best
ratio between money and wealth required for the conduct
of his affairs, and clearly if we merely alter the scale it
suffices, as a first approximation, to alter everything proportionally. It is rather a mis-statement of the truth to
picture a physical glut of finished wealth awaiting customers.
What actually happens is that each manufacturer knows
the correct ratio between the volume of business and the
stocks necessary to carry it on in the most efficient way,
and will not depart far from that ratio. It would be a
dead loss to him if he tried to carry too much stock and
he ceases production should his stocks become excessive.
So also he might, for a brief time, try to carry on in a
boom with deficient stocks, but would in practice raise
prices if he could not bring up his stocks to the required
ratio for the efficient conduct of the business.
The task of accumulating an extra 3EQ(r - 1) of finished
stocks in the system is thus accomplished by those, normally
consuming and entitled to consume, abstaining and transferring their powers of consumption to new workers, who
put in as much as they take out. Merely hoarding the
money would clearly be worse than useless. This, of
course, is gradually accomplished, in a manner gone into
in more detail later, until the stocks are built up from
raw material to finished products, and the first of the latter
are ready for sale. As fast as this occurs the new

238 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
£Q(r - 1) required to distribute it must be printed and
issued to the consuming public to maintain indefinitely
the new volume of production and consumption at the
higher level. The issue would normally be against Government expenditure, paid for in this way in lieu of by
taxation. In practice, of course, the rate of issue and its
exact amount would not depend on any theoretical or
complex calculation, such as has here been essayed, but,
as already explained, in accordance with the actual index
number of price-level and as soon as the appearance of the
greater volume of new wealth on the market justified
the belief that a new issue could be made without causing
the price-level to rise.
But we may as well complete the accounting in the
simple case exemplified. Ultimately, of the £Q(r - 1)
issued to the consumers, £(Q - X) (r - 1) will find its
way permanently into the system in exchange for
,j,(Q - X) (r - 1), and £X(r - 1) will remain in the
consumers' hands. So that the stocks inside the system
rise from 'i,X and is to !R,rX, and irS, and from £(X - Q)
to £r(Q - X) in money, because these are the equilibrium conditions which will look after themselves. But
what will not look after itself and has to be "managed"
is (1) the initial genuine abstinence and transference of
purchasing power from consumer to producer; (2) the
issue of new money. The first without the second is an
evil as great as the second without the first.
For it
means that in spite of all the efforts and sacrifice involved
the goods purchased cannot possibly be sold at constant
price. The money for continuing the new scale of production no longer finds its way into the system as soon
as the loans cease. The extra workers taken on to increase
production are thrown out of work. The extra stocks
accumulated have to be sold off, and, while this is being
done, as much additional unemployment is caused as
extra employment was furnished during their accumulation.
So that now employment falls temporarily below even
what it originally was, just as at first it rose temporarily

THE RIDDLE OF THE SPHINX

239

above it. In fact, this elusive and yet supremely elementary
riddle has probably been responsible for as great an amount
of futile human effort and waste of life as alJ the more
showy tragedies of famine, pestilence and war put together.
THE RELATION BETWEEN ABSTINENCE AND
NEW MONEY.

The most important correction that has to be introduced
into the foregoing reasoning is to allow for the effects of
hoarding and mutual credit, and it is very simple. Instead
of there being required £Q to distribute !fQ of finished
stocks, we shall require some other quantity £KQ, where
K is an unknown factor. It will only change slowly with
the business and domestic habits of the people. Instead
of the issue of £Q(r - 1) of new money, £KQ(r - 1) will
be required. But these considerations do not in the least
affect the necessity for abstinence from consumption to
the full ! extent of the increased stocks both of finished
and semi-manufactured wealth. In practice one would, of
course, be quite independent of the necessity for knowing
beforehand the numerical values of the various quantities
and factors involved. The price-level is the sole indicator
required; but the unemployment figures and whether or
not factories are working at full capacity are, of course,
valuable guides on the general question.
On the ideal system suggested the money in the consumers' pocket-neglecting hoarding and mutual loansshould equal the quantity of finished wealth for sale. The
increase of money called for must in any case be proportional to, if not equal to, the increase of finished stocks.
The initial abstinence is definitely equal to the increase of
total stocks, both finished and unfinished, necessary to
build up the system to a higher level. This means that
the new money issued can never repay more than a part
-usually a small part-of the initial abstinence; at most
the ratio of finished to total stocks of wealth.
1 Part of this abstinence may be derived from the unwitting abstinence
of money holders and not from conscious investment, IlS is about to he
considered.

240 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
Later we shall see that not only, as here, the accumulation of fluid capital, but in all cases of the accumulation of capital, indebtedness to individuals is incurred
which can never be repaid and therefore must bear permanent
interest.

A MORE DETAILED ILLUSTRATION.
Few people who have not tried to find a way of doing
it will be prepared to credit the statement that it is absolutely impossible to increase the stocks of wealth in an
industrial system and to build it up from a lower to a
higher level of production without some form of initial
abstinence or "saving" on the part either of consumers
or producers. We have sufficiently outlined the general
solution of the problem, but it may be instructive to
consider one or two points in more detail. Suppose we
consider the production of a commodity from start to
finish in three successive factories or markets. The first
manufacturer, dealing with the raw materials, will need
the first loan to enable him to increase his output and
pay more wages, etc. Suppose he receives a loan of £11 ,
which he pays out as wages and profits, putting into the
system ill of new unfinished wealth. As soon as it is
ready to pass to the second manufacturer, the latter will
need a loan of £11 + 12 , £l1 to buy the !Ell from the first
factory and £12 to payout as wages, etc., for its conversion
into ill + 12 , The first manufacturer need no further
loan because, receiving £11 by sale of his product, he can
repeat his increased output a second time. In the third
period the third manufacturer will need a loan of
£l1 + 12 + la' £l1 + 12 to buy the material from the second
manufacturer and £la for his costs in converting the material
a further stage to ill + 12 + la' Of the £11 + 12 , the £12
enables the second manufacturer to convert a second batch
of goods and the £l1 the first manufacturer to produce a
third batch. The loans being supposed genuine, all of this
time there is no depletion of the normal stocks of finished
wealth. But by loans to the extent of £31 1 + 212 + la,
£11 + 12 + la of additional wealth is now ready for sale,

THE RIDDLE OF THE SPHINX

241

and two separate quantities of intermediates £l2 + II and
£l1 are on the way. The three manufacturers have increased
their regular wage and other payments by £ll' £l2 and £la
respectively.
Let us suppose the loans now cease. The thrifty and
the business fraternity have done their part, and the wealth
is appearing in the consumers' mart for sale. How on
earth can it be sold 1 If it is not sold, clearly then the
extra payments £ll + l2 + la cannot be longer continued.
Not only is it true that it can only be made, but it is as true
that it can only be sold if these payments are continued.
Consumption has hitherto not been increased by the
accumulation, since the loans, if genuine, merely transfer
to the new workers the finished goods, which the lenders
themselves, otherwise, would have purchased and consumed.
When the loans cease consumption will not be increased,
unless the new workers are continued. Since, before, the
money in circulation sufficed to distribute the former flow
of wealth, it is obvious that it must now be increased
proportionally to distribute the increased flow, and this
can most easily be put into circulation by remission of
taxation and paying for Government expenditure with the
new money issued. If no new money is issued to purchase
the wealth for consumption the whole of the elaborate
process is undone. The stocks cannot be sold, the extra
wages, salaries, profits, dividends, etc., cannot be paid,
the extra hands taken on must be again dismissed to
resume their unemployment, and class hatred based upon
the assurance that the ruling classes of the country either
do not understand the elements of their business or else
are deliberately attempting to enslave the workers is the
natural outcome.
THE CASE OF EXISTING GLUT.

If in the last example there was a sufficient glut of
finished wealth in the market initially, only then could
the initial abstinence be dispensed with and the new money
issued at once as loans to industry. Suppose for the sake

242 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
of an illustration such unsaleable finished stocks amounted
to iMI. New money to a sufficient amount is printed
and gradually issued, so as to leave the stocks of wealth
above the requirements of the former scale of production
and capable of maintaining the permanently increased
level of production.
New money once put into the system goes on circulating, of course, for ever after, apart from accidental loss
or destruction of the money. But it puts in at each
circulation as much wealth as it takes out, always provided
that the existing organisation is capable, without new
capital expenditure, of handling the increased output and
that sufficient unemployed workers exist. On the assumptions made, by one such issue the wheels of industry might
be set whirling merrily, but the medicine must not be
repeated. Whereas by sufficient initial abstinence, precedent to the issue of the new money, the building up of
industry can be indefinitely continued. The consumption
of consumers, like the circulation of money, goes on for
ever, and cannot be met out of continuous new issues.
This is, therefore, a totally different proposition from that
of a National Dividend, which could only be a possibility
in a communalistic, not in an individualistic society. The
circumstances that would make such an occasional issue
of new money feasible would, of course, never arise if the
money were national and regularly issued in lieu of taxation to maintain prices constant as the national output of
wealth increased.
Thus the argument about the folly of saving society by
any scheme of "tinkering with the currency," because a
relatively small amount of money is sufficient to circulate
an indefinitely large amount of wealth, is in reality doubleedged. Society indeed could be saved just because of this.
The amount of abstinence required, precedent to this small
issue, is also almost equally trivial, at any rate where
unemployed labour and capital exist in abundance. It
would be preposterous to suppose that the ordinary
business acumen of the industrial world would not supply

THE RIDDLE OF THE SPHINX

243

out of profits the necessary stocks of materials if markets
for them were assured by the proper issue of national
money.
It has been necessary to insist uncompromisingly on
the need of initial abstinence, but this must not be confounded with the chronic abstinence and" work more and
consume less" slogan of the usurer. Precisely as with the
issue of new money, the abstinence is needed only once.
Granted unemployed labour and capital, abstinence at
most to the extent of the fluid stocks of wealth in the
system would double everyone's power of consumption on
the average for ever afterwards.

How IT WOULD LOOK TO A BANKER.
We have just considered the one case in which an issue
of new money could create permanent prosperity without
initial abstinence, namely, when there is a glut of unsaleable finished stocks in the market. But if we examine the
essential condition that has brought about this state of
affairs we shall find that it is due to abstinence and nothing
else, enforced and involuntary it is true, but none the less
abstinence. Individual owners have sunk their property
or earnings in industry if stocks have accumulated, and
have come to the end of their resources. These individuals
usually are the producers themselves, and the investment
intended to be temporary has become unrealisable. The
goods are there, belonging to them and awaiting sale, but
they cannot be sold.
Before we hastily conclude that the power of the banks
to create money and lend it to industry is justified by
this instance, it is well to ask precisely whether these are
the conditions under which bank credits would, in fact, be
extended or curtailed. Industry is glutted with unsaleable
goods. There was a market during the time in which the
manufacturers' payments, of wages, etc., out of their own
resources to produce the accumulation maintained a market.
The producers transferred their claims on the market to

244 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
the new workers who put in the accumulation. But now
they are at the end of their limited resources and their
capital is all tied up in manufactured goods, the process
of accumulation stops, and with it the demand on the
markets for goods from those formerly engaged in creating
that accumulation. The bottom drops out of the market.
Swollen and depreciating stocks must be sold when there
are no buyers. It is at this psychological moment that the
industrialist must approach the banker for the new money
to enable industry to carry on. He can point to the fact
that production has vastly exceeded consumption, that
there has, in banking phraseology, been a great speculative
boom, that there is no market whatever for the things he
produces and which he could continue indefinitely to
produce if he could sell them, and then humbly ask for
credits to facilitate production! The banker would think
him mad. He would say, "Is it not obvious to you that
your production has already outrun markets, and that until
the glut of stocks is disposed of credits must be curtailed, not
extended ?" So production is forced down now as much
below normal as during the initial period of accumulation
it was above normal. The accumulations are taken out
by the elaborate process of transferring purchasing power,
from wherever the remaining money of the country happens
to be at the moment, by taxation to maintain the unemployed and carry on somehow, and then, as soon as the
effects of the initial abstinence have been completely
dissipated, that is the psychological moment when the
banker will inflate.
THE CONSEQUENCE OF FICTITIOUS ABSTINENCE.

The consequences have already been sufficiently indicated. Stocks of finished wealth are depleted and stocks
of intermediates only are increased up to the new level to
maintain the boom. There is a shortage of wealth for
sale and an increase in the money to buy it at one and
the same time. Rise of price is inevitable under these

THE RIDDLE OF THE SPHINX

245

conditions. But it must not be supposed that the rise of
retail prices will, by causing each £1 at the consumers'
mart to take out a lesser absolute quantity of finished
wealth, thereby increase the stocks. Not at all. Profits
are merely increased. If there is a rise of 10 per cent in
the price-level, each £1 takes out only tqths of the unit
of goods that was before worth £1. But of the £1, £-hth
is extra profit, and comes round again at once taking out
the rest. The price of an article is sometimes defined as
what it will fetch. It is undeniable that it is not only
what it does fetch out of the consumers' pocket, but also
what it puts into the producers' pocket. But the producer
is also a consumer, and that part above the cost to the
vendor, the profit, is regarded by him as his private
property in his capacity of consumer. The rest has already
been paid, or will be paid, to the other people engaged in
production, each of whom treats it in turn as private
property to be expended in the consumers' mart. The
symbolism becomes more elusive if the price-level varies,
but this does not entirely vitiate the usefulness of this
method of regarding the problem. Indeed it is here again
only in so far as these unearned profits are put back in
the business that either the quantities or monetary values
of the stocks of finished wealth can rise.
At first there is merely an alteration in the distribution
between the consumer and the vendor, also a consumer.
What the one loses the other gets. But as the rise of
price is transmitted through the industrial system to the
factory and begins to affect wages and payments for
services as well as profits, then the absolute quantity of
wealth put into the system by the payment of £1 is reduced.
The stocks of wealth in the system, till then unaltered in
quantity by the rise of price, now begin to decrease in
quantity. They go on decreasing in quantity-and rising
in monetary value per unit of quantity-until the increased
amount of money in circulation pays only for the same
quantity of production as before the increase-except in so
far as, by refraining from distributing excess profits, the

246 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
producers themselves or other genuine investors may be
adding to the stocks of wealth in the system.
The existence of wealth is evidence that someone has
produced and has not yet consumed it. The existing
wealth is the excess of production over consumption and
decay from the beginning of time. The whole of itneglecting that part in fixed communal capital, such as
harbours, roads and the like-has individual owners who
have abstained to this extent from consumption. Beyond
this, abstinence equal in value to the total money of the
country is exercised by the owners of money, who voluntarily, but for the most part unwittingly, abstain not only
from consuming but also from owning.
It would lead too far into the morass of economic
uncertainty further to go into the question of the consequences of a changing price-level and all that it entails.
But the general nature of the effect of a rise of prices
may be indicated. Apart altogether from any increase in
the level of prosperity before even the former level can
be regained, after the rise of price has occurred losses
equivalent to the excess profits made during the rise
must be contributed by someone.
Naturally this is resisted strenuously by all those engaged in production,
employer and employed alike, and this accounts for the
difficulty of reducing the price-level after it has risen.
It must suffice if it has been shown that the mere issue
of new money, whether by the State, the banks, or by
counterfeiting, though it temporarily stimulates production
and consumption, yet by depleting stores of finished wealth
leads to rise of prices and, except in so far as it is counteracted by real investment supplying the missing stores,
ends in depressing the system below its former level
of real production at an inflated price.
WHAT HITHERTO HAS LIMITED PRODUCTION AND
CONSUMPTION.

But, once more, we may ask the oft-repeated question,
What under the system in vogue during last century

THE RIDDLE OF THE SPHINX

247

limited the expansion of wealth production 1-this time to
answer it. The rise of prices is the expression of the
shortage of finished goods. It leads naturally to the
attempt to supply these by import from abroad. There
are no goods ready to export in return. In other words,
the rise of prices makes that unprofitable. But there is
the one finished form of wealth which is artificially kept
at constant money-price, namely gold, and the country
therefore is drained of its gold to pay for the excess of
imports.' Automatically this rendered the position of the
banker insecure and his bank liable to be broken by a
call for legal tender, before the War and the moratorium,
at least, if no longer now. So credits are called in, money
is destroyed and the volume of production reduced to a
limit safe to the banker but insufficient to support the
nation. As we have seen already, in so far as there was a
simultaneous inflation of the currency in all countries, so
that gold did not tend to flow from one to another, there
has occurred a permanent rise of the price-level in all
countries and the restriction of the currency does not then
come automatically. But the banker's financial interests
are predominantly those of the creditor class. He toils
not, neither does he spin, but lives on interest. Thus a
rise of prices, which cannot be avoided so long as no one
gives up the money he creates to lend, is a very unwelcome
consequence. Receiving fixed monetary interest payments,
the bond-holder and the purely creditor class in general
see their real incomes diminished proportionally to the
rise of prices. On the other hand, if industry is ruined
their claims are the first to be settled. Hence the currency
is restricted and the attempt made to force down prices,
even though there is no risk of insolvency to the banks,
by reason of the fact that the mechanism is completely
controlled by those who have little to lose and much to
gain by this disastrous policy.
1 A whole library has been written on this theme, treated RS a cause
rather than an effect.

248 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
THE ONLY WAY OF AVOIDING INITIAL ABSTINENCE.

It is interesting to note also, in another direction, how
incompatible the banker's psychology is with the physical
factors of wealth production. It is clear that, for a given
price-level and for any given rate of production and consumption of wealth, the more money there is in the country
the less rapidly it must circulate. If it took the same
time to circulate once round the system as, on the average,
to produce wealth, the quantity of money could be the
same as the total stocks of finished and semi-manufactured
wealth, and no other abstinence would be required than
the voluntary non-interest-bearing abstinence of the owners
of money. The money could be issued "against the
goods" in the industrial system, as is sometimes urged.
Instead, the whole raison d'e-tre of banking, derived from
the time when the precious metals were the only currency,
is to "economise" in the quantity of money necessary
and to increase its velocity of circulation to the greatest
possible extent, so that it may never remain "barren"
and "idle," but shall be put over and over again to
"productive use." Whereas, if the circulation could only
be slowed down to conform with the natural time of production of wealth, it could be issued proportionally to this
increase of production without rising prices at all. Itself
it would pay for the abstinence required to increase stocks.
WHO GAINS AND WHO PAYS?

With the production of wealth essentially a finished
science, it is an insult to our intelligence to regard it as,
like the weather, beyond the wit of mortals to control or
understand. There should be an end of the fevered alternation of the trade cycle. It should give place to uniform
prosperity, whereby famines and drought are reduced to
their real local world significance and the whole world can
co-operate.!with mutual advantage. There are plenty of
people, .dowered with exceptional gifts, to whom this sort

THE RIDDLE OF THE SPHINX

249

of thing would not appeal. But they are the gainers and
not the sufferers under the present chaos. It is the consumer that pays for all the brilliant gambling and speculation as well as for all the fundamental ignorance and
incompetence that make the individualistic system what
it is. When democracy has grasped that, nowadays, the
production of wealth is really an affair of scientific engineering, and not primarily one of how to make pieces of
paper bring in interest, and that it is not only idle but
highly dangerous for science to expand its wealth unless the
currency is proportionately expended for use, it will have
learned something which, altogether matter-of-fact, lies
about as near to the root of economic freedom as it is at
present possible to get. It is certainly a good deal nearer
to it than the partisan creeds of politics, whether the older
issues of individualism and socialism, or the curious hybrids
being developed in Russia and in Italy. So far we have
not progressed in these matters much beyond the Irishman's
idea of feeding his pig, fattening it up one day and starving
it the next to get streaky bacon. The pig died, and our
streaky civilisation of the fat and the lean is in extremity
as dire.

CHAPTER XII

ACCUMULATION VERSUS DISTRIBUTION
THE ACCUMULATION OF CAPITAL.

IN the preceding study of the question how to foster
production and abolish unemployment we emphasised the
key part played in the problem of price by initial abstinence
from consumption until the goods being produced are
ready for consumption. The case was limited to the
accumulation of the necessary stocks of fluid wealth in the
system on the assumption that unemployed labour and
capital were available. But identical considerations govern
equally the accumulation of fixed capital. We may imagine
that the flow of wealth proceeds in solid walled arteries,
and may distinguish between fluid wealth and fixed wealth
-by the former term meaning that part which actually
flows out of the system and appears in the consumers'
mart for sale, and by the latter, the organs of production
themselves, which have to be put into the system by
processes identical with those for fluid wealth, but which
never comes out or can come out for consumption. It is
really more correct to consider in this category of fixed
wealth that proportion of fluid wealth which is necessary
to fill the arteries, for though it is always passing on, there
is necessarily always a certain quantity in the system,
which cannot be reduced without permanently reducing
the output. True, there is a difference if we contemplate
a continuance of the past alternations of the level of prices
and production, but there would be none with a reasonably
stable system. There is no sense in going to all the effort
and trouble involved in building up the system with the

ACCUMULATION VERSUS DISTRIBUTION 251
intention later of pulling it down again. Whereas, if we
deal with the accumulation of fixed capital, not only does
it never come out of the system at the consumers' mart,
but it never can come out. Sooner or later it comes to the
end of its useful life within the system itself.
In general terms, the only possible way to increase the
stocks of wealth in the system, whether precedent to
producing a larger output or to accumulate capital in the
first instance, is to by-pass money past the consumers'
mart so that it passes through the productive system twice
in its circulation instead of once. This puts into the
system twice the value of wealth which it takes out. But
it creates debts to the individuals who give up their
purchasing power, and, however we struggle with the
problem, we have to arrive at the conclusion that these
debts can never really be repaid.
It is an undeniable postulate that all the wealth put
into the system, reckoned in terms of the costs of production, not only does not but cannot come out.
LIKE MONEY, CAPITAL IS INDIVIDUAL \VEALTH AND
COMMUNAL DEBT.

Certain kinds of wealth, it is true, may serve different
purposes, and may be the fixed capital in one industry
and the raw material of fluid wealth in another. To a
very unimportant extent a community might" live on its
hump" like a camel, depleting its capital accumulation
for consumption. But this is exceptional. No primitive
community would reckon upon eating its ploughs if short
of bread. The financial mentality of modern man prevents
these elementary considerations from being properly appreciated. Production and distribution being regulated by
money tickets, no proper distinction is made between
ploughs and bread, because both equally exchange for
money. The economist has failed to enlighten him as to
the two totally distinct categories of wealth. Modern man
is therefore apt to think that he can consume the same

252 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
whether what is produced is consumable or not! He can
do so only if he can exchange the one form of wealth for
the other by foreign trade.
Irrespective of whether the equivalent of wealth put
into the system is, or is not, ever to come out of the system,
all costs incurred must be abstracted from the pockets of
the consumer, either at or en route to the consumers' mart.
If this is done at the consumers' mart, as much wealth is
taken out of the system as is put in again when the money
circulates out of the productive system. The amount
abstracted from the consumer is necessarily greater than
the amount he receives, very greatly so if capital, not
exchangeable for consumable wealth, is being accumulated,
but invariably so to make good waste and depreciation.
This is not merely a trite statement that the consumer
pays more than cost price for his goods, because it must
be remembered, in this method of approaching the subject,
that all profits are considered part of costs as much as
wages and nothing is hypothecated as to whether the
costs are reasonable or extortionate, necessary or avoidable.
It means that money must always be by-passed into the
system without passing the consumers' mart, whereby
more wealth is put in than is taken out.
Thus, in the case of waste, if a batch of goods worth
£X in total costs is spoiled in the making, profits are
reduced £X, and instead of this money finding its way
. into the consumers' mart it is put back in the system at
,the points required to cause the production of Jf.X anew.
The same is true of new capital extensions financed out of
profits. New enterprises and large extensions are financed
out of fresh loans, and if these are genuine loans the
operation is of the same nature and can be briefly described
as the by-passing of the consumers' mart.
All such operations involve the creation of debts to
individuals. Some, as in the making good of waste and
depreciation, are treated at once as bad debts. They are
written off and forgotten about as they are incurred and
do not bear interest. Others, as in financing capital exten-

ACCUMULATION VERSUS DISTRIBUTION

253

sions out of profits, involve the creation of no new formal
debts, but bear interest in enhanced payments on already
existing ones. But new loans involve the creation of new
debt charges, and of these it is as true as of the debts
written off as they occur for waste and depreciation, that
they can never be repaid. The ownership of these debts
changes hands precisely as for consumable wealth. Interest
is a payment for the use of capital, but is in no sense a
repayment, the debt being unaffected in amount by the
amount already paid. Repayment in the sense of reconverting the capital into consumable wealth is in all but
exceptional instances impossible, and in the end these debts
must be written down and written off as the wealth rots
in the system.
At first sight nothing could seem easier, having permanently increased the revenue, than to pay back those to
whom we are indebted for the initial saving with some
of the wealth that is being produced. But it is forgotten
that the wealth produced has individual owners, who may
exchange the goods they produce for the ownership of the
accumulated capital. But this merely transfers the debt,
it does not repay it. True, nationalisation, in which the
capital is redeemed by taxation or other form of general
levy, would vest the ownership in the whole community.
But even that is really a transference of the ownership of
the debt from individuals to the community and not
repayment in wealth.
THE DOUBTFUL HERITAGE OF SCIENCE.

The consequences of this insufficiently appreciated point
are seen in the conditions under which any so fortunate
as to be born in a scientific era must now enter the world.
It is estimated that capital to the extent of £1,000 and
probably more has to be accumulated to provide the
newcomer, when adult, with the necessary equipment for
him to labour effectively and with a house in which it is
possible to rear a family. At 5 per cent interest, these

254 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
aspirants for the privilege of being the heirs of all the ages

must pay at least £50 a year out of the produce of their
labour in perpetuity, a doubtful heritage assuredly, But
it is one of the deeper futilities of individualistic economics
that it does not provide a means for the redemption of
these debts, which are not to be escaped if the community
is to develop its revenue of wealth and expand its population.
THE FUTILITY OF TAXATION.

Taxation, death duties and the like, as will be obvious
if the effect is worked out on the diagram, normally merely
transfers ownership from one set of people to another,
and only alters the particular individuals who arrive at
the consumers' mart with money. Except in the rare
event of being levied to provide loans to industry, as, for
example, when £M3 of public money was loaned at 3 per
cent against the construction of the Lusitania and M auretania, it does not by-pass the consumers' mart. On the
contrary, by reducing the amount of surplus money in the
hands of comsumers, it may prevent them from investing it.
The State finds that, for its continued existence, it is
vital to lessen the weight of the dead hand of the past,
so that its citizens may not be reduced to helots under
the burden of debt into which they are born. The canons
of an individualistic society, which will not allow it to
own revenue-producing enterprises, and have confined its
powers of taxation to providing for its expenditure upon
services out of which a monetary profit cannot be made,
render it impotent. It may slash as savagely as it pleases
at the individual capitalist, but supertaxes and death
duties merely transfer his property to other individuals.
In so far as the debts, unlike the National Debt, represent
wealth permanently immobilised in the arteries of the
productive system, they defy repudiation and that facile
remedy of the statesman, the depreciation of the currency.
Taxation on these lines merely transfers the ownership

ACCUMULATION VERSUS DISTRIBUTION 255
from the original holders to a new set and results in substituting for one aristocratic devil seven plebeian ones.
The State, owning no revenue-producing enterprise,
cannot, if the value of money is not to be depreciated,
subsidise an industry, endow motherhood, grant pensions
to widows, assist universities and hospitals, or grant
everyone a National Dividend save directly out of the
pockets of the taxpayers in the community. Apart from
its Virtual Wealth, its much appealed to credit is simply
its power of running into debt. In this it is certainly the
superior of any individual or corporation, but merely
because it can tax its citizens to provide for the interest.
Even the gigantic credit of the State is now, surely, nearly
spent.
But, without owning the industries or even the banks
or the land, the State could, if it controlled the issue of
currency and every form of credit in which new money
is created, go a long way to putting its house in order,
and could strike effectively at monopolies in every form.
It could give economic freedom to its citizens in so far as
to ensure to everyone the right to earn a living.
We are approaching here certain questions raised by
Major Douglas and the school of Social Credit Reformers.!
It must be said at once that, although there are obvious
points of resemblance between many of the points of view
set forth in this book and those of the Douglas School,
especially as regards the diagnosis of the industrial deadlock and the existence of fundamental errors in national
as distinct from individual accountancy, the resemblance
ends there.
THE AGRICULTURAL POSITION OF THIS COUNTIW.

There is no disagreement between us as to the physical
possibility of abolishing poverty and unemployment corn1 Compare Economic Democracy and Credit Power and Democracy,
C. H. Douglas; The Community' 8 Credit, C. Marshall Hattersley; The
Flaw in the Price Sy8tem, P. W. Martin, and other recent works; and
the weekly review, The New Age, which is the organ of the movement.

256

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

pletely by catering for and engineering, as distinct from
financing, a vastly increased scale of living of the masses
no less than of the few, and that one of the keys to the
problem is in issuing effective demand, Le. money, in order
to distribute for use and consumption the almost indefinitely
extensible revenue capable of being produced in a scientific
age. In this respect, although agricultural produce is in
a different category from manufactured articles and capital,
even for the former there seems no good reason to doubt
that supply will follow and long keep pace with demand,
and that it is only effective demand that is lacking. This
is of course not yet true for this country as an isolated
community in the present state of agriculture. The most
that experts in agricultural economics seem prepared to
concede is that the country could supply on an economic
basis about one-half the food it consumes. The following
extracts from Food Production in War, by T. H. Middleton,
are germane to this question.
P. 320, footnote: "One million Calories approximately
equals a year's supply of energy for one person; the numerals may therefore be read as persons provided with food."
P. 322: "The net gain which the country secured
from the produce of the 1918 harvest was not less than
4,050,000 million Calories.
" . . . The average food supply of the United Kingdom
in 1909-1913 provided 49,430,000 million Calories, and the
total product of the home soil was 16,872,000 million
Calories. The gain in the output of home-grown food in
1918 was therefore about 24 per cent. In other words,
whereas the country began the War with supplies provided
by its own soil which would have sufficed for 125 days
out of the 365, in the year in which the Armistice was
signed it had secured a harvest that would have sufficed
for 155 days out of the 365. The crops were grown and
the stocks fed under conditions that were altogether
abnormal; but the land's extra produce was equivalent
to the supply of 30 days' food for the nation living its
normal life.

ACCUMULATION VERSUS DISTRIBUTION

257

.. It should be noted that the extra month's food supply
which the 1918 harvest represented falls far short of the
total quantity of human food that the 1918 harvest could
have furnished if the prolongation of the War had compelled
us to stretch our resources to the uttermost. As was
stated at the time, if we had reserved for live-stock the
pre-War oat crop, but closely milled all other grain and
used it for bread, and if we had made the full use of
potatoes that a hungry nation might make, we could from
our cereals and potatoes have provided a quantity of food
equivalent ~o forty weeks' consumption of bread-stuffs,
and by slaughtering our live-stock the additional foods
required by the population in this period would have been
procurable. But, fortunately for us, no such drastic
methods were necessary."
Discussing the question whether this country could
feed its entire population, this author concludes that, from
the purely agricultural point of view, there would be no
special difficulty, meaning that the people were fed by a
Food Controller as a farmer feeds his stock; but dismisses
the suggestion as absurd if it means a practicable proposition under the existing economic system that the people
would consent to and pay for.
".But between the 34 per cent of our food requirements
supplied by our land in 1909-1913 and 100 per cent there
is a wide margin, and if the vanished hand of the Food
Controller could be restored and he compelled us to satisfy
from 40 to 50 per cent of our total needs from our own
land, it might be no bad thing."
But the peculiar position of this country, in which
agriculture, instead of being carefully fostered, has been
allowed to decay, must not be taken as settling this question. It is merely the obverse of the opposite situation
abroad. In the newer countries we hear of corn and
other forms of food, after too abundant harvests, being
used as the cheapest fuel, of farmers being ruined by an
over-production of crops and stocks, and forced to restrict
production severely to maintain an economic livelihood,

258 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
that the output of rubber similarly is being limited to
keep up prices to the level at which it pays the producer
to continue production, and so on-all horrible actual
practical examples of the fatal effect of a falling price-level
in restricting production. The problem, if there is one, is
one of exchange, not production. This country must be
able to make the equivalent of other kinds of wealth to
offer in return to the newer countries where food production is still in excess of consumption. That is to say,
if home production in general were liberated from the
stranglehold of finance the whole problem could be solved.
At some remote future, if population outruns the improvements of agricultural efficiency by new scientific advances,
no doubt a real problem would arise. But that time, at
the worst, is still far off.
ANALYSIS OF THE DOUGLAS SCHEME OF SOCIAL CREDIT
REFORM.

But as regards concrete proposals to be adopted to
bring about the new era and, still more important, as
regards the theoretical and physical interpretation of the
working of an economic system, the Douglas School is, for
the most part, not merely in divergence with but in pointblank contradiction to the conclusions here set forth.
Here the primary mistake, to which the wrecking of the
system has been traced, is the passing, with the development
of modern banking, of the prerogative of the issue of
currency from the nation to private hands for usury as a
mode of livelihood, and the fatal dislocation consequent
upon money being destroyed when production outruns
markets and issued when demand outruns supply. It is
claimed that beyond a definite amount of wealth, called
the Virtual Wealth, which the owners of money voluntarily
abstain from owning-the monetary value of which is
measured by the money in circulation and which is a
function of the number of the population and their economic
prosperity-the "National Credit" is indistinguishable

ACCUMULATION VERST/S DISTRIBUTION

259

from that of an individual, being' simply a power of running
into debt and paying interest out of the taxes. Salvation,
if society is to remain individualistic, must come by
enforcing initial genuine abstinence from individuals equal
to the growth of the cost-value of the whole industrial
mechanism a.& it is expanded, less only the relatively t.rivial
part represented by the increase of Virtual Wealth as
measured by the total money circulating.
The Douglas School appear to look for salvation in
the precisely opposite direction. They look to the National
Credit as a means of distributing new purchasing power,
and, so far from recognising the necessity of any initial
abstinence, even go so far as to stipulate that these national
issues shall be new money and not out of past savings.
They claim that since only a small part of the costs of
industry are distributed as payments to consumers, goods
must be sold below cost price to make up the difference.
Or, alternatively, National Dividends should be paid out
of the National Credit to everyone irrespective of their
participation in production-much as the subsidies are now
paid, but out of taxation, to the unemployed. Basing
their stand on the undeniable proposition that industry
exists to' produce goods in the largest possible quantity
and in the most expeditious and efficient manner rather
than to make work for unnecessary and often highly
inefficient and unwilling workers, and that industry could,
if allowed, produce more than sufficient for everyone, they
set their face against taxation and, in general, the limitation
of large incomes to provide for those in need as entirely
unnecessary and politically, if not ethically, mistaken.
They look to the State to dispense money rathe1l'than to
take it away. They appear vaguely to contemplate so
bringing about a state of things in which wealth was
restored to its proper importance in the economic life, for
the use and maintenance of life, rather than, in Ruskin's
phrase, the "power over the lives and labours of others."
Everyone having their physical wants abundantly supplied,
the wealthy could neither consume so much as to cause

260 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
any inconvenience to the rest nor could they unduly increase
their consumption by employing a retinue of hired personal
servants and attendants to minister to their wants, since
no one would be compelled by reason of actual economic
want to work for them. If they needed servants they
would have to pay them liberally and treat them properly.
Similarly in industry there would be no need of economic
compulsion to get the work done. Machinery and growing
intelligence would make of industry a profession, sought
by those desiring to devote themselves to its service and
shunned by the degraded and servile, who even now do
more harm than good.
This will probably be recognised as a not unsympathetic,
if imperfect, exposition of the principles and aspirations
of this very interesting new school of economic thought.
Much more will be heard of it. It possesses vision and
may one day become a real driving force in politics. It
has already brought back into being some of the original
passion and enthusiasm of the earlier reformers, before the
sterilising and paralysing influence of mercantile economics
side-tracked the leaders of the progressive movement into
devious paths and insincere denunciation "about it and
about," the while their followers" evermore came out by
the same door wherein they went."
Those who agree with the essential conclusions arrived
at in this book will find no compromise possible on certain
fundamental principles relating to the physical nature of
money, credit and capital. Beyond th~ the school
neglecting altogether the facts of the existing ownership
of wealth, do not honestly face the real obstacles to its
more abundant diatribution, Further, the view that all
the costs of production are not distributed already, as
payments for services real or imaginary, as well as recovered
from the consumer, seems of the' nature of a misunderstanding. In the same category is the argument that
because all wealth produced is' not distributed to, but is
paid for by, the consumer, it is physically possible to make
up the deficit out of the national credit. The Douglas

ACCUMULATION fERSVS DISTRIBUTION 261
scheme seems somewhat prematurely to assume the existence of a communal rather than an individualistic State,
in which there are no debts, no rights of property and no
private ownership of capital, and in which all the existing
paraphernalia of wealth production is to be regarded in
all singlemindedness as having been accumulated with the
primary object of production rather than with that of being
hired out for production. This work is, by contrast, confined to less ambitious themes, and may be regarded as an
attempt to find out the best that the individualistic state
of society can offer if it were intelligently administered.
THE RISK OF DISCREDITING THE NEW ECONOMICS.

These relatively mild and practical proposals will not
satisfy an extreme "New Economist." He will say with
force: You admit the continuous displacement of human
labour by machinery and every form of labour-saving
device, which, if it has not yet gone so far in agriculture as
in engineering trades, has for that reason the further yet
to go. You admit, therefore, that with increasing potential
production the titles to consume will find their way into
fewer and fewer hands. How do you propose to meet
this fundamental difficulty, or how does what you have
proposed meet it 1
The only answer that can be made to this is that the
situation ultimately anticipated is still very far from
having arisen, and that if we do not understand how the
existing system works and wherein it fails we are likely
to make it worse rather than better. Those who desire
the immediate payment to everyone of a National Dividend
-and women especially are attracted by this form of the
Douglas scheme as a way of escape from the position of
economic dependence 'upon the other sex-should face
frankly the question where it is to come from and who is
to give it up. For even science cannot create wealth with
the same facility as it is possible to create debts. Taxation
is one source; unlimited credit, or running into debt

262 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
indefinitely, is another; depreciating the value of the
currency progressively, a third; while expropriation, the
public ownership of all sources of revenue and the abolition
of private property altogether, with common ownership
of the national revenue, are others; and all of them have
their avowed or secret advocates. But the idea that the
nation is in possession of a mysterious talisman called
credit which, when industry is unable to pay for the
initiation of fresh production, can supply it with all that
is needed without anyone giving up anything at all, and
that this national credit consists of the accumulated result
of all the past centuries of past effort, when the whole
trouble is that these accumulations are owned by private
individuals, is to push the confusion between debt and wealth
to lengths that would have surprised even the author of
The Theory of Credit.
On the other hand, even for modern science, the cleaning
of the Augean stable of an industrialised nation is no light
task. There would be very few, for a long time to come,
unable to find in useful occupations the titles to consume
if the nation seriously set itself to the task. There are
millions requiring a largely increased supply of necessaries
and ordinary commodities-not to mention the capital
accumulations in increased stocks. We need also houses
to live in, whole cities of slums must be rebuilt and povertystricken areas must be resuscitated, railways modernised
and roads made, super-power stations created at the coalfields to distribute to every corner of the country electric
power, and there are increasing demands to be met for
higher education, both of the young and the adult, and
universities will have to be built to provide for the growing
army of seekers after knowledge. All these projects involve
production far in excess of consumption-hard work and
abstinence for everybody. It would indeed be a matter
for astonishment if, for a long time to come, in this country
there were any prospect of dispensing with the services of
any useful and willing member of the community. By
then at least, if the suggestions made in this book were

ACCUMULATION VERSUS DISTRIBUTION 263
adopted, the nation would be already in possession of a
large part of its capital by the process of redemption to
be outlined, and could begin to consider seriously the
question of a National Dividend. As things are at present
that would be both premature and impracticable, and its
colossal failure by discrediting the new economics would
set back progress for a generation.
At the same time it is not necessary to follow the
mistakes of the orthodox economists due to their ignorance
of the modern science of production and their devotion to
doctrines which, however applicable in the time of Adam
Smith and Ricardo are to-day, with the growth of phy ioal
and biological science, very considerably out of date. Even
in agriculture it is not possible to look at the problem
solely" with the eye of the farmer." There is such a
thing as "Power-Farming," a theme on which Mr. Henry
Ford waxes eloquent in his book, My Life aTUJ, Work
(Heinemann, 1923). Mr. Ford, looking at agriculture
with the eye of the engineer, concludes: "We shall have
as great a development in farming during the next twenty
years as we have had in manufacturing during the last
twenty." Even in this country the change that has come
over the subject is already very marked.

CHAPTER XIII
CAPITAL REDEMPTION
THE PRODUCTION OF CAPITAL INVOI_VES LESS
CONSUMPTION.
THOSE who agree with the physical as distinct from the
metaphysical conception of the nature of wealth will need
to spend little time on proposals to make up to the consumer, by means of consumers' credits, the part of the
price or cost of the goods in the consumers' mart due to
the accumulation of capital goods which are not distributed
to the consumer. If people devote their time and energy
to producing capital goods, there may be questions to
solve as to the rightful owner of the capital goods accumulated, but there can be none whatever about there
being less goods of a consumable character to be consumed.
The proposal to reduce prices below cost by means of
consumers' credits is, physically, like trying to liquefy the
mains of a water-supply system to provide more water to
the consumers-who pay for the laying of the mains as
well as for the water, but to whom none of the mains are
delivered with the water.
In an individualistic community the community owns
little or nothing of a wealth-producing nature. In a community in which the production of wealth was socialised
and the community owned the organs of production and
the wealth produced from start to finish of manufacture,
national dividends and consumers' credits would be a
practical proposition. But as things are at present they
merely would mean an increase in the National Debt, only

CAPITAL REDEMPTION

265

reducible by further taxation covering not only the principal
but also the interest.
On the other hand, if we socialise or nationalise production, the difficulty is not solved, as it is impossible to
socialise consumption, which is essentially an individual
affair. Money or some alternative device would still be
necessary to distribute the product and to accord among
individuals the title of ownership of the goods produced.
Without an equitable and rational monetary system the
millennium would be just as far off under Socialism as ever.
We have, therefore, first to inquire whether the monetary
system here proposed would operate justly in this question
of the effect on the value of real wages of the diversion of
part of the efforts of the community from the production
of consumable goods to that of capital.
THE EFFECT ON REAL WAGES.

We may contrast two modes of working the system.
It may be worked so as to maintain its capital organs of
production in full use in accordance with its needs but
without increasing them. Then the quantity of consumable
goods distributed is the maximum possible that can be
permanently maintained, and the average scale of living
is the maximum possible. Or we may suppose that the
same system is worked to devote a large part of its whole
effort, not to the production of things that can be consumed
in actual living, but of those which can only be of use in
the productive mechanism itself. The quantity of goods
in the consumers' mart is then less than before and the
average scale of living is proportionately reduced. Since
Labour under an individualistic system is powerless to
choose between the kind of work that yields the wealth
it needs for consumption and that which does not, it is
necessary to be satisfied that, under the system proposed,
the real value of its wages is not affected by this consideration. Under the present system, in which prices rise before
wages and can only be reduced by reducing wages, it

266 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
clearly is. The future abundance of wealth will depend
much upon whether fresh capital is being accumulated or
not, and we have already examined the laws regulating
these matters and the point at which further capital
accumulation reduces rather than increases the average
gentility of the community. But no one can possibly
now maintain that it depends much on the ownership of
the capital accumulated. The efficiency of an enterprise
is not dependent on the names of its shareholders. If
capital is being produced for export in exchange for consumables, the case is the same as if consumables were
being produced at home. If they are exported for nothing
immediate in return, that is exchanged for claims on the
future wealth of other countries receiving them, of the
nature of interest payments, the effort in producing them
contributes nothing to the country's distributable wealth
nor to its future power of producing wealth. But they
form a fund realisable, as in time of war, to liquidate debts
incurred by importation of goods.
If this question is examined thoroughly, it will be found
that the real wages of labour are unaffected if prices are
maintained constant. In brief, fictitious loans being ruled
out, capital can only be accumulated by genuine abstinence
on the part of individuals entitled to consume. Their
decision to produce capital goods instead of consuma.bles
is at the expense of their own consumption and not at the
expense of the community in general. The injustice, if
there is one, is of another kind, if the choice rests entirely
with individuals with money to invest.
THE DEPRECIATION OF CAPITAL AND

THE SHIFTING OF

THE BURDEN ON TO THE PUBLIC.

It is often argued that the capitalist is not such a fool
as to invest money in capital beyond the extent to which
it can be used and produce a revenue. The fact is that if
he has more money than he wishes to spend he must do
so, and his decision whether to spend or "save" is more

CAPITAL REDEMPTION

267

dictated by his own circumstances than by the consideration whether more capital is required by the nation or not.
If there is more than enough, though the rate of interest
may be temporarily lowered, the price of goods is not
necessarily lowered. If there is twice as much capital as
is necessary, the consumer might be far better off by paying
a higher rate for the use of half the amount than a lower
rate for the use of all at half its proper capacity. But
competition is a passing phase, and is more and more
replaced by combination keeping up the rate of interest.
An excess of capital unwanted in peace production, in
time of war would find an outlet for its unused capacity.
So arises the incentive towards militarism and aggression
in international politics, in order to secure markets, or
alternatively, as serving the same object, to fight about
them.
The interests of property are among the most powerful
of all political forces, and, faced with loss, the owners of
property will move heaven and earth to invent a means
to shift the burden upon the shoulders of the public. The
era of competition gives rise to one of combination, to be
followed in ripe old age by nationalisation. Inevitably
with the lapse of time and growth of scientific knowledge
capital depreciates and gets out of date. If the amount
sunk in it is large enough to form a powerful political
interest, the burden is more and more shifted to the community. By political action an old and inefficient means
of conducting an industry or service may be prolonged
long after it should be, because of the great loss that would
otherwise fall upon those who have invested their money
in the capital. So that it is altogether too naive a view
of the real world to regard the investor as acting on his
own risk and entirely bearing the loss when the capital
accumulated is too much or is rendered obsolete by scientific
progress. I t is necessary here to substitute for the false
idea of the spontaneous increment of capital the true one
of its continuous decrement, and to provide a method for
the continuous redemption of capital out of revenue.

268 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
THE ORIGIN OF INTEREST ON CAPITAL.

Some of the considerations dealt with in this chapter
are germane to the perennial question of the origin of
interest, meaning the hire-payment for the use of organs
of production in production rather than monetary interest,
much of which arises merely by the artificial restriction
of the medium of exchange. The conventional theory
that it is a reward of abstinence need not long detain us.
A man who abstains from consumption might reasonably
expect to be able to consume what he has abstained from
consuming, but there is no a priori reason why he should
expect so to be able to consume more. With very few
exceptions-that of vintage wines may be admittedwealth, as is well known, depreciates with keeping. Interest
is not the real inducement to save so much as the oncoming
of old age and the necessity of providing for dependents,
in the first instance, leading later to the special needs of a
hereditary leisured class and its obvious inability to survive
as a class, with continuous genealogy, without some such
convenient institution. One may logically subscribe to the
doctrine of the necessity of the existence of a leisured class
in troubled times to keep alive the torch of culture and
learning. As times become less troubled the desire to
make its survival less of an anomaly may even act to keep
alive all sorts of civil, religious, and racial antipathies better
decently buried. But to pretend to look forward to the day
when the whole world will constitute itself such a leisured
class and live for ever after upon interest is to betray an
elementary ignorance of the laws of nature which it was
originally the professed raison d'~tre of the leisured class
to correct.
INEVITABILITY OF INTEREST IN AN INDIVIDUALISTIC
COMMUNITY.

On the view of the nature of wealth here expounded
there is no mystery whatever about the origin of interest
upon capital in private ownership. History tells us that
capital has always been able to exact interest payment for

CAPITAL REDEMPTION

269

its use, and it is important to know whether, like gravitation, it is an inevitable phenomenon, or whether, with the
growth of a true science of national economics, it would
disappear, like the interest on money in so far as it may
be due to an artificial shortage and monopoly of the medium
of exchange. The answer is that, in an individualistic
society, interest upon privately owned capital is inevitable;
because, powerful and little in need of incitement by the
reward of abstinence as the human passion to acquire and
save is, the very last thing any individual would devote
his savings to would be the organs of production, other
than those he required himself, if there were no interest
payment for their use. Capital we have put in the second
category as one of the forms of permanent wealth-Wealth 11
as it was styled-and it is already in certain respects fully
consumed. The energy employed in producing it has
already run to waste, and, unavoidable and necessary as
its use is for production, itself it is good neither to eat nor
to possess, nor can it be transformed into other varieties
of wealth. So that if the initial expenditure incurred in
making and accumulating it is not recouped in the form
of interest, as a hire-charge for its use, it cannot be recouped
at all. The debt charge created by its production cannot
be repaid apart from some such physical miracle as the
conversion of a plough into bread. It is one of the major
difficulties of the subject that there seems no obvious
method of equating the sum-total of hours of past labour,
expended on its production, against the expenditure of
present effort necessary to make it productive. In other
words, there is no simple ethical principle to which to
appeal to determine the just rate of interest. In practice
the rate of interest, like the price of an article, is fixed by
"what it will fetch," andIn these matters ignorance and
misconception play as large a part as purely physical
considerations.
But it is interesting to note in passing the banker's
attitude towards a sum of money in terms of that of the rate
of interest, as set forth by MacLeod, though it is a point

270 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
of view with purely mathematical rather than physical
justification. Assuming a continuous growth of money
with the lapse of time, the capital sum may be regarded
as the sum total of all future interest payments over an
infinity of time, discounted to their present-day value.
But this is necessarily true whatever the rate oJ interest may
be, and therefore the view is of no help in our present quest.!
THE SCIENTIFIC ARGUMENT AGAINST THE UNREGULATED
CONTINUOUS PRIVATE OWNERSHIP OF CAPITAL.

On the energetic view of wealth, the argument against
the unregulated continuous private ownership of the organs
of production, save such as are worked by the owners
themselves, is in practice as great as against permitting
"the uninterrupted powers of usury." It enables the
individual member of the community and his heirs to do
what is a physical impossibility for the community as a
whole to do, namely, to live indefinitely upon the fruits
of a definite amount of effort by a process of permanent
economic servitude of other individuals. This book holds
no brief either for individualism or socialism, and is concerned merely to find the chief cause of modem unrest
and the simplest methods of correcting and removing
them. Next to an honest monetary system, the need for
the continuous redemption of revenue-producing capital out
of income appears to be the most important step towards
reform. The State also should exercise a general control
over the question as to the due balance to be preserved
between the production of goods for use and consumption
1

In mathematical symbols, MacLeod's theory is

o=

1 = 00

1

i (J • ,-U . dt

1- 0

where 0 is the capital and i the fractional rate of interest per annum,
Then i O. de is the interest accruing in the element of time dt (years).
The present value of the element that accrues at the future time t years
is i 0 .
dt, and the capital is the sum of the present values of all
such elements from now to infinity.

,-it.

CAPITAL REDEMPTION

271

and the accumulation of fresh capital, as it did during
the War.
THE DEEPER FUTILITIES OF INDIVIDUALISTIC ECONOMICS.

These, it is to be feared to the general reader, painfully
minute inquiries will have been well spent if they serve
to tear the veil from the deeper futilities of the individualistic system of economics that have hitherto prevented
any general material progress towards economic freedom.
Not only is it true of money, but it is equally true of
capital that it is communal indebtedness as much as
individual wealth, implying as much poverty on the one
side as riches on the other. That is not the case for wealth
in the sense of the actual consumable and perishable goods
which nourish and maintain life. But whereas in the case
of money, rightly understood, the debt never need be
repaid and is wholly beneficial to everyone concerned, the
debt in the case of capital, however much is paid, never
can be repaid, and, in a world employing ever more and
more capital per worker, has to be regarded as a growing
burden upon the propertyless. If this sort of civilisation
is to continue to function at all, the purposes for which
taxation is levied must be radically extended and used
no longer solely for the purpose of defraying current Government expenditure, but also for fostering and building up
industry and for the redemption of capital indebtedness.
The State must begin to exert, as the trustees of the
propertyless, the same foresight and acumen as the individual does for himself. Whereas the present sudden
passion for the nationalisation of industries, like the railways and coal-mines, in the most unexpected quarters, is
suggestive of the desire to saddle the community with
what are no longer financially lucrative propositions.
A SCHEME OF COMPOUND CAPITAL REDEMPTION.

The following practical suggestion is designed to meet
the situation as an alternative to the nationalisation of

272 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
industries en bloc, the financing of which means merely
addition to the National Debt. The income-tax levied on
unearned incomes should be earmarked as a tax for the
redemption of capital and its purchase by the community,
and not as a source of revenue out of which to defray the
costs of government. It can be readily calculated that if
an unearned income-tax of 4s. in the £ were used to purchase
the capital, and the interest accruing from previous purchases were devoted to the same purpose, the whole of the
capital would be so purchased and pass to the ownership
of the community in a period of time twice that required
for the interest payments to equal the capital-that is to
say, in forty years for a security paying 5 per cent, in
fifty years for one paying 4 per cent, and so on.
Under such a scheme the taxpayer could be given the
option of an income-tax-free security terminating at the
appropriate period, or of paying income-tax upon it from
year to year as now. In the latter event the Government
brokers would purchase the equivalent of similar securities
in the open market. In the former event, although no
change would be called for so far as the shareholder was
concerned until the security terminated, naturally the part
ownership of the State in the concern would be recognised
by representation upon the governing body of shareholders.
This case may be termed" compound redemption," where
the interest upon past purchases as well as present taxation
is employed in the redemption.
SIMPLE REDEMPTION.

It is obvious that this method could be applied only
to revenue producing securities. In the case of simple
debt, like the National Debt, the interest is itself derived
from taxation, and it would probably be too much to expect
the public to go on providing it after the debt had been
redeemed. In this case what may be termed simple
redemption would apply, in which only the taxation is
available for redemption, and the debts as acquired would

CAPITAL REDEMPTION

273

be destroyed. It can be calculated that for one-half of the
debt to be redeemed about seventy years would be necessary,
and the times for other proportions are given in the
Appendix in tabular form below. Naturally here, as the
debt diminishes, the rate of redemption diminishes in like
ratio, whereas in the case of compound redemption the rate
of redemption increases as redemption is effected. This
brings out vividly and in quantitative fashion the advantages of compound over simple redemption, and the precise
measure of the disservice to the State done by an economics
founded on the interests of a leisured class, denying to the
State the right of productive ownership.
The sole change involved in these proposals is the ear:'
marking of tax on unearned income for capital redemption
and the provision of the expenses of government from
other sources. What these would be have already been
indicated. A reasonably honest national money system
would, as shown, already effect a large direct saving to
the taxpayer, and the greatly enhanced national prosperity
that would result from selling goods as well as being able
to produce them would make the task of a future Chancellor
of the Exchequer comparatively easy.
If this were practical, a not unimportant advantage
would arise from the steady market produced for all
securities by the continuous redemption annually of 1 or
more per cent of the total. Investors would invest their
savings far more cheerfully if their securities could be sold
without risk of unnecessary loss through the limited nature
of the market they command and with something of the
readiness of a Postal Order or a War Savings Certificate.
The Government would be always buying, and if the
market value of the stock appreciated so would the value
of the publicly owned part appreciate.
The system appears to realise the widely felt necessity
of making the payment of interest, like the span of human
life, terminable rather than perpetual. This occurs after
the return of twice the principal, free of tax, on all classes
of productive security, about one-fourth of the redemption
18

274 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
being effected by taxation and three-fourths by purchase
out of the interest of the part already redeemed (or alternatively by interest on deferred taxation), with a tax of
4s. in the £.
In an Appendix the mathematics of these processes
and some tables in connection with them ha.ve been
worked out.
MATHEMATICAL APPENDIX.
MATHElllATICAL PRESENTATION OF COMPOUND REDEMl'TION.

If i is the fractional rate of interest per annum, p the proportion taken by taxation, and G is the fraction acquired by the
Govemment at any time t (years) from the start, we have
d G/dt = i p (1 - G)

+i G

in which the first term represents the redemption by present
taxation, and the second that by the interest on the capital already
redeemed. The solution of this is

t =.

I

1(1 - p)

log,

{I + G (.!.I)} or G = 1 - P
P

_P_(£it(I-P) -

1).

l/i is the period of years in which the investment returns the
principal 8.S interest, and may be replaced by the symbol P. If
the tax is 4s. in the £, p = O·2, and the expression becomes
t = 2'875 P{log10 (1 + 4 G)}
So that if G is 1, t = 2· 0125 P, or for a 5 per cent investment,
40' 25 years. In the following table the time for a variety of
values of G are given:
G

0·1

0·2

0,3

0"

0·5

0·6

0'7

0'8

0'9

1'0

P

0'42

0'725

0·9S

1·19

1,37

1'53

1'66

1·8

1'91

2·0125

t

8'4

14'5

19'6

23·8

27'4

30'6

33·2

36

38·2

40·25 yeaI'll

--- - - - - -- - - - - ---t

The figures in the last column refer to a 5 per cent security,
with income- tax at 4s. in the £.
For the case of complete redemption (G = 1) the expression is

!P = _I_log,
(~)
I-p
p

CAPITAL REDEMPTION

275

and in the following table is given the time of complete redemption
for various rates of taxation, in terms of the period P. This
represents also the total return to the investor of the tax-free
terminable investment in terms of the original principal.
Tax

t

P

es,

5s.

's.

3s.

2s.

lB. In the £

1'73

l'S'

2'01

2'23

2'25

3'29

I t is of interest also to deduce the expressions showing the
proportions redeemed respectively out of taxation and out of the
interest upon the part already redeemed. We will denote by Gr
the first, and by 0] the second, Le, G = Gr
G]. We then have

+

dG

.

dtr = t- l' (1 - G)

and

dG]

.

d:'t = '" G

Putting in the value previously found for G and integrating
gives

a, = _1'- [_1'- (1 _ EU(l-P) + it]
1-1'

G] = -!!.....1-1'

I-p

[_1_
(Eit(l-p) _ 1) _ it]
1-1'

For the particular case, where the whole of the capital is
redeemed, i.e. G = 1, denoting by T and I the parts in this case
redeemed by taxation and interest respectively, we get

_1_ [(_1'_Iog,~)
- 1'J
1-1'
l'
I = _1_ [1 - (_1'- log, ~)J
1-1'
1-1'
l'

T =

1-1'

If p is given the value o·2 (4s. in the i), we get for TO· 254
and for I O' 746, i.e. for this case, about one-fourth is redeemed
by taxation and three-fourths by interest payments on the part
already redeemed. The values for other rates of taxation are
given in the table:
'B.

8s.

28.

lB. In the £

0'7l!

0'746

0·785

0·827

0'89

0·28

0,25'

0·215

0'178

0·11

Tax

6B.

5B.

1

0'69

T

0'81

276 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
MATHEMATICAL PRESENTATION OF SIMPLE REDEMPTION.

Here dO/dt d, ip(1 - 0) and t = - {1/(ip)} log, (1 - 0).
If i = 0·05 and p = 0'2, t = - 230 log10 (1 - 0).
With these values of i and p we obtain:
G

0'1

0'2

0'3

0-4

0'5

0'6

0-7

0'8

0'9

--- - -- - - -- - - - - - -230
t
10'5 22'2 35'7
51
92
121
161
69'5

0'99
460 yeara

CHAPTER XIV
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS
THE

ELEMENTS

OF

FOREIGN

TRADE.

IT is now generally understood and admitted, as a result
of the War, that the position into which this country has
drifted is becoming increasingly precarious in its excessive
dependence upon foreign trade for the maintenance of its
food supply. It seems inevitable that, as the world fills
up and new countries develop, they will more and more
tend to consume the food and raw materials which they
produce and more and more make their own factory products.
So that from a double cause our present mode of living, in
which we have allowed agriculture in this country to decay
and concentrated upon the manufacture of articles which
are becoming increasingly difficult to sell abroad, cannot
indefinitely continue. Apart, however, from the danger of
war, the problem is not a pressing one.
This question bulks so largely in the minds of many
people that they almost refuse, with unconscious narvety,
to consider the question of internal reform at all. They
seem to ascribe to the irrational and haphazard system
some mysterious and unspecified advantage for the conduct
of foreign trade which would be jeopardised by the nationalisation of money and the stabilisation of the currency.
But unless these are going to make foreign trade and
the exchange of manufactures for food more haphazard
and difficult than at present, there is no case against
internal reform. One does not in real life refuse to consider a cure for a disease because it is not a universal
panacea.

278

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

Most people are beginning to realise, also as the result
of the experience of the War, that foreign trade, like
reparations, is not really a question of money at all. Foreign
trade being essentially barter, money appears in all its
nakedness as a simple acknowledgment of the debt of the
community issuing it, repayable on demand in wealth only
within that realm and quite unobscured by the principle
of virtual wealth which gives it such importance in its own
country. A foreigner may want a supply of our money for
use here, just as we may want a supply of his to use there,
but a supply of our money there or of his money here is
merely the acknowledgment of a debt payable on demand
in wealth, but in a distant place and realm, of no practical
advantage to anyone. It is idle to send a supply of money
abroad to pay for goods. It all has to come back again
before it is of use as purchasing power. A small, but not
uninstructive, illustration of the principle is when a foreign
correspondent encloses a stamped envelope for a reply!

THE TRADE BALANCE.

The bulk of foreign trade is really carried on by the
buyers and sellers in each country separately settling
amongst themselves, leaving only any outstanding balance
to be settled. Such trade balances are conveniently discharged by shipping gold from one country to the other.
Thus a British buyer of foreign goods pays his account not
directly to the foreign seller, but to the British seller of
goods to foreign buyers, through suitable agents that carry
on this class of business. The same is true of other countries,
and the technical details need not further detain us. By
suitable international agencies it is similarly arranged that
the outstanding balances need not be settled as between one
country and another, but only as between each and the rest
of the world put together. Thus, if we want corn from
Australia, Australia tractors from the United States, the
United States platinum from Russia, and Russia herrings

INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS

279

from us, equal values of each may be and are bartered
without any need for money at all.

'----------.herrings-----------'

It is not, therefore, the balance of trade between two
countries that has to be maintained, but the balance as
between anyone country and the whole of the rest of the
world together.
These are the realities of foreign trade, and the part
played by money in it is apparent rather than real. If,
as in all countries having international currencies on a gold
basis, gold is given a fixed exchangeability in terms of
money, the relative values of the currencies cannot vary
very much with time, Le. the foreign exchanges of these
countries are stable. If gold were not sent to correct the
trade balance, the exchanges would vary over wide limits,
because, then, the goods entering pay for the goods leaving,
whatever the relative proportion may be. If imports
exceed exports the exchange goes against the country,
until further importation into it is unprofitable both for the
home importer from and the foreign exporter to the country
with the relatively depreciated currency.
THE INTERNATIONAL ASPECT OF WEALTH AND DEBT.

The function of gold in maintaining automatically, by
its inflow and outflow, the value of money in terms of gold
constant and preserving stability of the foreign exchanges
among all the countries on a gold basis, without any other
automatic regulation of the quantity of money in circulation,
has already been fully dealt with. It does so correct the
balance of foreign trade, but if currency were stabilised upon
index number, the function of gold in foreign trade would
be reduced to that of simple barter and could be open to no
objection whatever. Even now, the foreign trader using
gold for international payments, uses it simply as a cornmodity, and is quite innocent of any responsibility for the

280 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
complex and often disastrous chain of consequences it
entails in the business world by "concertina-ing" credit.
The statesman shifts his responsibility for the currency on
to the banker, and the banker in turn shifts the odium for
his errors on to the importer.
The proverb of the devil among the tailors often suggests
the true origin of many controversies, and this applies to
one aspect at least not only of modern international conflicts
for markets, but also of the internal Free Trade versus
Protection controversies in all countries. It is easy to see
that, when the export of gold is used as a means, not only
of settling trade balances, but also as a means for contracting credit and checking "the rise of prices that makes the
business world so happy," it must appear that the interests
of export trade and import trade are diametrically opposed.
The one is used to damage the other. But a moment's
reflection on the theme that foreign trade is barter and
that the best way to increase exports is to increase imports
and vice versa, ought to suggest that the interests of both
importers and exporters are identical.
THE FUNDAMENTAL NATURE OF THE PROBLEM.

However, these questions really raise fundamental and,
at present, almost entirely insoluble issues. We are brought
up by them to ask whether men live to work or work to
live. Canada produces a superabundance of food-stuffs.
The shoe industry claims it could shoe Great Britain for
the year by a few days' work at our factories. What more
natural than to suggest an exchange of footwear for food 1
In practice we find the Canadian boot industries pressing
for a tariff to preserve their home market from our imports,
just as our farmers seek protection from foreign corn. If
we contemplate free and unrestricted barter between the
countries it is the Canadian farmer who would get the boots
and our bootmakers the wheat, but the Canadian bootmaker
and the British farmer would not benefit, in so far as there
is a real plethora of both wheat and boot-producing capacity.

INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS

281

Whereas what each and all need, in that case, is leisure, to
work less whilst consuming more, and to devote an increasing
part of their lives to other pursuits than the earning of a
livelihood and the amassing of " wealth." There is, in the
end, no other solution to the problems raised by the fecundity
of science. The increasing number of people, who now
actually do contribute little or nothing that is essential to
the production of wealth and derive their claims to participate from permission to allow it to proceed rather from any
positive contribution, that could not be better provided
without them, as well as, at the other end of the scale, the
increasing number who derive a pittance from the public
purse, all tell the same story of the prodigal abundance
that cannot be disguised even by all the waste and senseless conflicts that attend the present system. When one
contemplates a country like the United States, which it has
been computed could easily supply almost the entire wants
of the whole world without over-exerting herself, a country
which has few real wants which it could not as well supply
within its own territory, and therefore with little use for
imports, but an almost infinite capacity for exports, the
problem looks frankly insoluble.
EDGED TOOLS.

For it must be remembered, in international as in
national economics, capital debts are not really repayable,
and imply" power over the lives and labours" of other
countries, though, no doubt, the object is no more sinister
than for the case of home" saving." Export trade, when
a nation has no equi valent wants to be supplied by imports,
is for "invisible imports," in the way of interest upon
capital debts, and may be, and usually is, fostered by lending
the debtor nation the money to pay, which means forgoing
payment in return for continued future interest payments.
Thus, for a time, the home industries are "protected"
against competition from imports, but one trembles to
think of what the day of reckoning will really mean as

282 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
between great and powerful nations, one anxious to repay
and the other unable to allow repayment.
The phrase caveat emptor has a singularly sinister
international application. "Let the buyer beware" of
importing upon credit and insist that imports shall be
balanced by exports, or run the risk of bartering an
inheritance for a mess of pottage.
This country during the earlier part of last century
exported far more than it imported, and acquired large
holdings in foreign investments, which yielded an annual
revenue, enabling it, towards the end of the century, to
receive far more than it exported, without an adverse tradebalance. The War reduced very much these holdings
abroad, and the trade-balance for 1925 has been estimated
to be only £M28 in our favour, after allowing for the
income of our remaining foreign investments. In the
century preceding the War our exports, which at first were
nearly double the value of our imports, increased only
twice, whereas the imports increased seven times. But
both have been dwarfed into relative insignificance by the
swollen figures of national expenditure since the War.
Mr. Withers.! quoting an address by Mr. McKenna in
October 1922, who said: "For over two centuries British
capital has been lent to other countries. Year by year
England produced more than she either consumed herself
or could exchange for the products of other nations, and
she could not obtain a market for the surplus unless she
gave the purchaser a long credit. Foreign loans and
foreign issues of all kinds were taken up in England, and
the proceeds were spent in paying for the surplus production "-proceeds to argue that the payment of reparations
from Germany should be sought in the same way.
" Germany, gifted with great natural resources and with
unrivalled powers of work and applications, [ought] to
produce a very considerable exportable surplus if she made
the necessary effort and the necessary diversion of her
productive power."
1

Bankers and Credit, Ba.rtley Withers, 1924.

INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS

283

By "peaceful penetration" in Italy, Mexico, Brazil
and other places where she is apt to be regarded as a menace
to our trade and financial supremacy, she could, it is suggested, acquire investments and hand them over to her
creditors. Surely, most people will agree that this is
playing with edged tools, and that it is hardly worth while
sowing the seeds of a new war to pay for the last one, and
to depress our own industries by doing so.
ECONOMIC FREEDOM VERSUS SERVITUDE.

So in the international field no less than in our internal
affairs we have to make up our minds whether it is wealth
or debt that we really desire, whether to use the otherwise
embarrassing riches of the age to promote economic freedom
or servitude among nations as well as among individuals.
International rivalries and antagonisms would be more
intelligible if there were any longer a real economic, as
distinct from chrematistic, foundation for them. In times
when population was always tending to outrun food supply,
before the effective occupation of the whole world, together
with intensive modes of cultivation, had reduced the law
of diminishing returns in agriculture to its proper local
significance, growing nations were for ever being faced
with the alternative of war or starvation. But now it is
all the other way. The struggle is not for wealth, but to
dispose of it advantageously to its owners, to convert
present wealth into a claim upon future wealth, to sell it
if possible, but, if not, to lend it so as to be able to derive
from the debtor a permanent tribute of interest in the
future. Old wars of conquest were often for similar ends,
but universal conscription and the militarisation of whole
nations, as a consequence of their being able to produce
more wealth than they can consume, exchange, or even
lend, is quite a new and curious phenomenon in history.
The struggle is only nominally between nations, and,
by the survival of deep-seated herd-instinct, is directed
along these traditional channels. It is, in reality, between

284 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
the debtors and creditors of all nations in common, and
no solution whether of social or international conflict is
possible until debts are made terminable and a proportion
of the interest payments upon them devoted as a sinking
fund to their redemption. That it is entirely within the
jurisdiction of each nation to determine for itself, for its own
nationals and for its foreign investors alike, and, if there is
no preferential discrimination against the foreigner, no
just cause of international quarrel could thereby arise.
The property of a private citizen or corporation, invested
in a foreign country, is amenable to the laws of that
country as regards taxation.
But international debts, of the kind which the War has
left in its wake, are a Jar more serious menace to the peace
of the world. They are not repayable except by injuring
the debtor class of the creditor nation, its workers, its industries and its trade, and they are not transferable among
individuals as are private indebtednesses. They are like
stale waters, conserved during drought, after the rains have
come and the rivers have resumed their normal flow,
as unhealthy as they are unnecessary.
THE PRACTICAL PROBLEM.

To come back to practical affairs from these general
reflections, since no nation is justified in interfering with
the internal affairs of others, it is only possible to consider
the problem of foreign trade as it concerns any single nation.
Whilst recognising that it is a part of a wider debtor-creditor
problem, it is, so far as concerns the private investor at
least, not different in this to the internal problem. The
investor to the extent of his holdings in a foreign country
is, in effect, a citizen of that country, and would be subject
to the same provisions if such were made, for the redemption
of capital, as the nationals of that country.
It is certain that in an individualistic society, as in a
communal one, it is idle to produce or to try to produce
things that are not in demand. In an individualistic

INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS

285

society the onus is on those who, by reason of changing
conditions, are no longer capable of earning a livelihood
by their former occupation, to change their occupation.
In Chapter III it was pointed out that this was, under
modern conditions, a far less serious change than formerly,
provided always that a sufficiency of other profitable
employment for all the workers is secured. It may be
necessary to recognise exceptional cases and tide over
periods of too rapid readjustments, but, in general, we
cannot escape the conclusion that exchange between
nations should be free and unrestricted, and that it is
desirable that each country should specialise in providing
the classes of goods best suited to its natural resources
and aptitudes.
By stabilising the currency upon index number we do
not fix any particular prices, but only the general average,
so that if some goods are in greater or lesser demand than
others their price will rise or fall relativply to the others
until the tendency is checked by increased or decreased
supply, exactly as now, except that gold would be no
longer an exception to this rule. No gold whatever need
be used for internal currency, but it would still find, as a
commodity, precisely the same use as now for correcting
foreign trade balances.
THE FUNCTION OF GOLD.

Each country receives from abroad goods of the same
value as it sends abroad. It is of the nature of the case
that these must balance over long enough periods, except
in so far as the debts may be converted into long-period
investments not repayable on demand. The difference
over short periods, the so-called favourable or unfavourable
trade-balance, can never be large, and gold as a commodity
serves excellently to redress such differences. All countries,
even those not on a gold basis, will readily accept gold as
a convenient and satisfactory form of temporary payment.
If gold were demonetised and reduced to the rank of a

286 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
simple commodity, the available stock of it in a country
would furnish a precise indication of its trade-balance.
It is widely recognised that the present anomalous
position of gold is a menace to international relationships.
America has by the War secured the greater part of the
world's supply, and if it were let out into circulation again
it would play havoc with the existing monetary systems.
On the other hand it could be honoured for international
currency as now, but on a commodity basis, and be used
to stabilise the exchanges in so far as temporary violent
fluctuations are concerned, leaving them to find their own
level gradually according to the monetary standards and
currency systems adopted in the various countries.
Since there is every reason to anticipate that gold will,
from now on, steadily depreciate in value in any case, the
more rapidly the less use of it is made for currency and the
more quickly and widely it is demonetised, and since all
nations have been hoarding it or trying to do so under the
mistaken impression that they were thereby" saving," it
would seem to be a suitable case for the League of Nations
to come to some equitable and friendly convention as to
the future disposal of it. They might agree upon the ratio
in which the stocks should normally be held in the future
in various countries as a national reserve for stabilising the
exchanges and avoiding unnecessary and harmful fluctuations. But it is to be hoped they will not hand over the
destinies of the world to the care of three or four of the
most powerful banks to decide what it pleases them best
is to be done from time to time, and institute a fraudulent
gold standard, the value of the metal being just what those
interested please to make it by arranging how much or how
little of it is to be let out for currency. It is one thing for
a nation to consent to play its due part in finding some use
for and preventing too rapid depreciation of redundant gold
and to take upon its shoulders the risk of loss by consenting
to maintain for a time a limited quantity as a special
reserve. But it is quite another question to perpetuate
the stranglehold which a few people of anti-social instincts

INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS

287

and mentality have, by cornering and controlling money,
secured over the life and activities of industrialised and
commercial nations. The standard of value should be
fixed beyond the possibility of being tampered with by
anyone, however well-meaning and benevolent. But gold
at its market value, whatever that might be, could still
serve a useful purpose in stabilising international currencies
and conferring upon foreign trade some of the benefits that
would accrue from an internal invariable monetary unit.

A SUGGESTION FOR THE STATISTICAL REGULATION OF
THE TRADE BALANCE.

The question of foreign trade, which necessarily causes
some apparently arbitrary restriction on the freedom of
individuals, is a difficult one. One may trace always, in
the accounts of acute commercial crises in the past, the
feeling of indignation and irritation engendered by "unpatriotic" foreign speculators draining the country of its
gold supply when most needed at home. Individualistic
economics has never fairly met the fundamental difficulty
of balancing imports and exports, when each is entirely
unregulated and left to the private enterprise of individuals.
If we wish to secure the maximum amount of stability and
freedom of trade within our borders, it is obviously very
undesirable to leave it exposed to violently intermittent
competition from abroad according to the state of foreign
exchanges. Questions, such as Protection versus Free
Trade and the taxing of imports or subsidising of exports,
ought by common consent to be removed altogether from
the political sphere and left to statistical regulation of the
same nature as that which has been proposed for the
regulation of the quantity of money.
We have seen that if gold were demonetised for internal
currency and used solely as a commodity for rectifying
trade-balances, and stabilising the exchange, the available
stock of it in the country would serve as a precise barometer
of its international trade position. If these taxes were only

288 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
imposed when the gold barometer showed them to be
generally necessary, and to an extent that was necessary
to maintain the stock of gold within definite limits, these
questions might be removed from the battleground of
partisan politics, and the chief objection to them, in that
they create" lobbying" and corruption, would be removed.
Thus a country would decide that its gold reserve should
not rise above a definite maximum nor fall below a definite
minimum. If it did, a tax upon exports used to encourage
imports, in the first event, and a tax upon imports used to
encourage exports in the second, would seem to be an
impartial and statistical method of maintaining the just
balance.

A NATIONAL S'fABILISED CURRENCY WOULD ASSIST,
NOT RETARD, FOREIGN TRADE.

The suggestions made for nationalising and stabilising
the internal currency in no way interfere with the conduct
of foreign trade, or make it more onerous. It would be
difficult to point to a single advantage that would be
conferred upon the internal commerce and industry of a
country that would not be of equal importance and benefit
to its foreign trade.
Our dangerous state of dependence upon our foreign
trade to provide our food supply is itself very largely due
to our private banking system, and its unwillingness or
inability to grant sufficiently long-period credits on the
security of future production, which are a necessity to
agriculture, liable in the best of circumstances to temporary
set-backs through a failure of the harvest. Bad as the
lack of security and the perpetual changes in the trade
outlook are for industry, they are worse for the farmer,
concerned as he is with essentially long period processes.
Unless he can be given reasonably stable conditions it would
be folly on his part to spend years of unremunerative effort
in developments which in their very nature can only yield
a return at some relatively distant date.

INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS

289

Is THERE A FINANCIAL CONSPIRACY ~
It is very widely believed that there has been something
akin to an actual financial conspiracy to enslave the world.!
The Westerner is not exactly the quickest in the uptake
where the elusive principle of Virtual Wealth is concerned.
It has escaped the purview of the professed theoretical
economists, who seem to have remained entirely oblivious
of the profound changes going on under their eyes in the
very nature of money. Conspiracy or not, there can be
little question that the power these discoveries have put
into the hands of financiers will, if not controlled, enable
them in their own time and choice effectively to conquer
the world.
Hitherto in this field of high finance, the semi-Oriental,
cradled in the battleground between East and West, has
been supreme. Before the development of science, the
flood of mystical half-truths that inundated the Western
world from this quarter had effectually subjugated it
intellectually. The Westerner, in trying to assimilate and
digest this exotic spiritual diet, entirely lost-and, indeed,
counted it well lost-any intellectual independence. He
was fascinated and hypnotised by the iridescent bubble of
beliefs blown around the world by the Hebraic hierarchy,
and even now, long after the lancet of science has pricked
the bubble and let in the light, the alleged doings of the
chosen people thousands of years ago is still considered an
essential part of everyone's education, whatever else of
human story and achievement be omitted. It would be
unwise to underrate the influence of a dominant force of
this magnitude over people's lives in accounting for the
inversion of science, and it explains a great deal, otherwise
unintelligible, about the terrible Victorian era.
But conscious conspiracy or not, and whether one
race rather than another is responsihle, there can be
1 Compare, for example, Protoeol« of the Learned EkUrlJ of ZUm,
from the Russian of Nilus, translated by V. E. Marsden, The
Britons Publishing Co•• 1925.

290 WEALTH, VIRTUAL· WEALTH AND DEBT
no doubt of the fact that finance has already more
than half enslaved the world and few, if any, individuals, corporations, or even nations can afford to
diplease the monetary power. In 1916 President Woodrow
Wilson said:
" A great industrial nation is controlled by its system
of credit. Our system of credit is concentrated. The
growth of the nation, therefore, and all our activities are
in the hands of a few men. . . . We have come to be one
of the worst ruled, one of the most completely controlled
and dominated Governments in the civilised world-no
longer a Government by free opinion, no longer a Government by conviction and the vote of the majority, but a
Government by the opinion and duress of small groups of
dominant men."
We have given up the belief in physical miracles, only
to be ensnared by metaphysical ones. Until the apparent
miracle of Virtual Wealth is understood and mastered by
those who would essay to influence the destinies of nations
they will continue to be like clay in the hands of the astute
financier. It is a consequence of this miracle that science
has endowed ghouls and become the King-maker of Cacus,
offering men the choice of freedom to be worked and preyed
upon or leisure to starve in the richest age the world has
ever known, and to nations armaments and conscription
to destroy one another in order to create national security
and securities, so that pious posterity may eternally honour
their sacrifice and never cease to pay tribute to the national
debt.
In this situation one distrusts the ability of the League
of Nations to hold its own and bring about real peace.
Their suggestion that there should be a sort of gold standard,
the value of which can be made much what it is considered
best by the eminent bankers and financiers advising them,
is a sinister and distressing move, for it frankly hands over
the real control of the world to the monetary power. The
suggestions in this work, needless to say, are at the poles
apart from this, which sounds like a travesty of the dream of

INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS

291

uniting the world under a more catholic religion-a revised
version of the golden calf, with a garment" not golden but
gilded," and under a standard "not of gold but of gain."
It would be the final step, whether a conspiracy exists or
not, in the enslavement of the whole world by one central
financial power.
Whereas it is obvious that national safety lies in the
precisely opposite direction, in each nation understanding
and controlling completely its own financial mechanism and
regaining the powers so unwittingly abdicated and lightly
allowed to go by default. Only then is it to be expected
that it will be used to the general good and that the riches
of science will be used to promote wealth rather than debt.
THE REAL CONSPIRACY.

Whether or not there is a conspiracy among the " chosen
people" to re-establish by gold the dominance they were wont
to derive from God-and the Biblical history (Exod. xxxii)
recalls a strictly parallel attempt, frustrated by the energetic
action of their chief legislator-it must be admitted that
it would be a revenge on science for its iconoclastic tendencies, not without a certain sardonic humour, if we wake up
one day and find instead of the ten commandments a single
golden rule. These are conjectural possibilities, and, no
doubt, as in the time of Moses, there are still Jews and
Jews. Let us hope so, at least.
But of the existence of a real conspiracy-a conspiracy
of silence--on all monetary problems, in the Press and on
political platforms, among editors, publishers and economists, who more than any others ought to be alive and
awake to their infinite importance-there can be no question
whatever. It exists, and anyone who has tried to call
attention to the evils ot the present system will affirm it.
Mr. H. G. Wells is reported to have said:
.. To write of currency is generally recognised as an
objectionable, indeed almost an indecent, practice. Editors
will implore the writer almost tearfully not to write about

292 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
money, not because it is an uninteresting subject, but
because it has always been a profoundly disturbing one."
It was indeed a revelation to the author, accustomed to
think of the battle for liberty of thought in scientific matters
as having been fought and won centuries ago at the time of
Galileo and the Inquisition, to find that in economics, as
distinct from physics, it has not yet been won at all. If
he had been a biologist no doubt he would have put the
date as late as the controversy between Huxley and the
bishops. On the other hand, if he had been a pure mathematician, he might have smiled at the very idea of anyone
having to fight at all about, say, the truth of the propositions
of Euclid. Which is to say, that liberty of thought is an
evolutionary growth rather than a sudden birth, extending
in order from the affairs of the intellect to those of the soul,
and only finally, if ever, to the affairs of the pocket. It
was not without its humorous aspect in this connection to
find in the recent condemnations in this country of the
campaign against the teaching of evolutionary doctrine in
certain States of the American Union certain disquieting
parallels drawn between it and the precisely similar attitude
of our own liberal saoante towards psychical research, the
teaching of the methods of birth control, or, as might have
been cited as an instance, towards the new doctrine of
Physical Economics. Liberty of thought still much depends
on the circumstances.
One may sympathise with the motive for preserving a
decent concealment and obscurity from the public gaze
of the inner mysteries of the subject of money, whilst
condemning the danger and folly of it. If economics were
really a science it would not need to protect itself from
criticism by a conspiracy of silence. A responsible criticism
would in any scientific subject be met with instant response,
and not by the ostrich policy of burying the head in the
sand in the hope that that will thereby choke the ears and
throw dust in the 'eyes of the pursuer also.
Every proposal to reform the system is always :rpet by
powerful interests pretending that the reform proposed is

INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS

293

the old heresy of economic salvation by creating money,
Precisely, then, if when practised by the Government or the
private counterfeiter, it is a quack remedy, why are the
banks constituted the duly qualified practitioners of such
quack remedies and relieved by their office from reaponsibility for the ruin they cause 1
It may be that our publicists are silent for the same
reason as a doctor is when he hesitates to inform his patient
that he is suffering from a fatal malady that baffles all
scientific inquiry_What, then, can they reply to this
charge, that the patient is made and kept ill by administering
drugs that all know to be harmful and fatal 1 It may be
that the danger is not to the country, except, indeed, the
danger of recovery from its present impotent and drained
condition, but to our public servants and officials, who,
unless an amnesty were granted them, might reasonably
expect to find themselves impeached, if real political
government came to be re-established. Lastly, it may be,
and probably is, that our professed leaders and experts
in these intricate matters are in a dense fog themselves,
and, not knowing what else to say, go on repeating what
they were taught in their youth at college as economic
science. Whatever be the reason, if this attempt to hide
from the public the real facts of the existing monetary
system and to suppress all public criticism and commonsense arguments in favour of its reform is continued, the
already very prevalent view of the existence of a treasonable
conspiracy against the State by the leaders of Finance
will not lack foundation. Conscious conspiracy or not, the
danger is exactly the same. A corrupt monetary system
strikes at the very life of the nation.

CHAPTER XV
SUMMARY OF PRACTICAL CONCLUSIONS
IT may be of assistance to the reader to collect and summarise
the chief practical conclusions arrived at, as distinct from
the theoretical analysis upon which they are based.
(1) The production of Wealth, as distinct from Debt,
obeys the physical laws of conservation and the exact
reasoning of the physical sciences can be applied. Wealth
cannot be produced without expenditure, and a continuous
supply of wealth cannot be supplied as the result of any
expenditure-once for all, for it is a form of energy, or the
product of its expenditure under intelligent direction. Its
production demands a continuous supply of fresh energy
and continuous human diligence, nowadays, rather than
physical labour. The scale on which it can be produced
is practically limited only by the state of technical knowledge of the time. There is no longer any valid physical
justification for the continuance of poverty. The phenomenon of unemployment and destitution at one and the same
time to-day is solely due to ignorance of the nature of wealth
and the principles of economics, and to the confusions between
wealth and debt which have hitherto bemused that subject,
even among those who have essayed its scientific investigation and elucidation.
(2) There are two distinct categories of wealth which
owe their value to the opposite qualities of perishability and
permanence. Both are alike in the manner of their production. But in the formation of the first category of perishable
wealth the energy required is stored up for use later by
life when the wealth is consumed. It includes food, fuel,
explosives, fertilisers and all materials the usefulness of

SUMMARY OF PRACTICAL CONCLUSIONS 295
which depends upon the change they suffer in use. They
can only be used once, and they usually function as the
energisers and actual supporters of life.
In the second category of permanent wealth the energy
required to produce it is not stored in the product--or, if
it is, it acts detrimentally to durability in use-but has
already gone to waste in the process. It enables and
facilitates life, but does not empower it. It saves further
expenditure of life-time to an indefinite extent, but does
not support life. The category includes all classes of
permanent possessions, of all degrees of actual durability,
but distinguished from the first category by the fact that
their destruction is incidental to and not the reason for
their usefulness, and is a dead loss. This category includes
the whole of capital in the sense used in this book, namely,
organs of production used in production.
(3) Capital, by saving to an indefinite extent the
expenditure of human time in production, appears to afford
a continuous revenue of wealth without further work, but
the origin of the wealth produced is in the continued use
of capital by human agents, not in the capital itself. There
is no ethical principle to which to appeal, in order to equate
the time spent in the accumulation against the continuous
expenditure necessary to make it productive, or to determine
the just division of the wealth produced as between the
capitalist and the worker.
(4) Money is now a form of national debt, owned by the
individual and owed by the community, exchangeable on
demand for wealth by transference to another individual.
Its value or purchasing power is not directly determined by
any positive or existing quantity of wealth, but by the
negative quantity, or deficit of wealth, the ownership and
enjoyment of which is voluntarily abstained from without
the payment of interest, by the owners of the money, to
suit their individual business and domestic affairs and
convenience. The aggregate of this deficit is called the
Virtual Wealth of the community, and it measures the
value of all the money owned by the community, which is

296 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
forced by the necessity of exchanging its produce to act
as though it possessed this ameunt of wealth more than it
actually does possess. The Virtual Wealth of a community
is not a physical but an imaginary negative wealth quantity.
It does not obey the laws of conservation, but is of psychological origin. It increases with the number of the population and the national income and varies over long periods
of time with the habits of the people and the way they
conduct their business and domestic monetary affairs. It
is only when the Virtual Wealth is constant that the general
level of prices is directly, and the purchasing power of
money inversely, proportional to the quantity of money in
circulation.
(5) Banks create and destroy money arbitrarily and with
no understanding of the laws that correlate its quantity
with the national income. They have been allowed to
regard themselves as the owners of the virtual wealth
which the community does not possess, and to lend it and
charge interest upon the loan as though it really existed
and they possessed it. The wealth so acquired by the
impecunious borrower is not given up by the lenders, who
receive interest on the loan but give up nothing, but is
given up by the whole community, who suffer in consequence
the loss through a general reduction in the purchasing power
of money.
(6) The banks have usurped the Prerogative of the
Crown with regard to the issue of money, and corrupted
the purpose of money from that of an exchange medium to
that of an interest-bearing debt, but the real evil is that we
now have a concertina instead of a currency. These powers
have fallen to them in consequence of the invention and
development of the cheque system, unforeseen before it
became an established fact. It has been connived at by
politicians of all parties, who have betrayed the people
and without their knowledge or consent have abdicated
the most important function of government and ceased to
be the de facto rulers of the nation. The issue and withdrawal of money should be restored to the nation for the

SUMMARY OF PRAarICAL CONCLUSIONS 297
general good and should entirely cease from providing a
source of livelihood to priva~ corporations. Money should
not bear interest because of its existence, but only when
genuinely lent by an owner who gives it up to the borrower.
(7) The value of money should not depend on the
quantity of a single commodity, sucq as gold, and the
standard of value should have reference to the general average
of goods consumed and used in living. That is to say, the
index number of general price-level, or its reciprocal, the
purchasing power of money, should be maintained constant
by regulating the total quantity of money in circulation.
The index number should be continuously ascertained by a
national statistical authority who would report its findings
to the national authority charged with the issue of money,
so that the issue may be regulated to maintain the standard
of value constant, much as the National Physical Laboratory
in this country is charged with the standardisation of
weights and measures.
(8) When the quantity of money is constant, its value
or purchasing power is 'proportional to the Virtual Wealth,
and when its value or purchasing power is constant, the
quantity of money is a measure of the Virtual Wealth.
The issue of money should therefore be regulated by its
purchasing power, so as to maintain the purchasing power
constant, more being issued if the purchasing power tends
to rise, or the index number to fall, and some withdrawn
from circulation if the purchasing power tends to fall and
the general price-level to rise, very much as the speed of a
steam engine under varying load is automatically controlled
by steam being admitted by the governor when the speed
tends to fall, and shut off when it tends to rise.
The money issued should defray national expenditure
in lieu of taxation, or redeem interest-bearing National
Debt. The withdrawal and destruction of money should
be by taxation or by raising a National loan.
(9) It is recognised that the invariable standard of
value proposed is a debtor-creditor standard to facilitate
long-term business engagemen-ts and remove the speculative

298 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
element introduced into them by change in the value of
money. But in an era of increasing human efficiency in
wealth production a debtor-creditor standard of price is
not necessarily a " just" price. But no social progress can
be secure until the purchasing power of money is made
invariable.
(10) To initiate the system some £2,000,000,000 of
National interest-bearing Debt should be cancelled and the
same sum of national money (non-interest-bearing National
Debt) issued to replace the credit created by the banks.
The taxpayer would thereby be relieved of the payment of
£100,000,000 a year interest on purely fictitious loans.
This annual interest is a payment by the taxpayer to bondholders for money lent to the State, and it is transferred
under the existing system to the banks for their services in
creating new money as bank credit and conferring it on
bond-holders against their bonds as collateral security.
The taxes are thus paid to the bank for doing what the
taxes were imposed to prevent being done, namely, the
increase of the currency. Otherwise there would have been
no reason for the State to borrow at interest if it had not
wished to prevent the increase of the currency.
(11) The banks should by law be required to keep
national money, £ for £ of their liabilities for customers'
" deposits" in current account, and only be permitted to
lend money genuinely deposited into their keeping by its
owners, who give up the use of it for the stipulated period
of the loan and receive receipts in legal form subject to
stamp duties on a scale designed to make it relatively
unprofitable to lend for finicking periods.
(12) The failure of the nations to use to the full, for the
enrichment of life, the ample powers conferred upon them
by the progress of scientific and technical knowledge is
traced primarily to the private issue of money and the
mistaken principles which govern it. Credits should be
issued, not cancelled (that is, the money in circulation
should be increased not decreased), when supplies outrun demand. Genuine abstinence from consumption, or

SUMMARY OF PRACTICAL CONCLUSIONS 299
"saving," is the essential antecedent to any increase of
money in circulation if the price-level is not to be raised.
(13) To raise any productive system from one scale of
production to a higher scale without causing a change of
price-level, and so to absorb unemployed labour and
capital, demands an initial abstinence from consumption
equal to the increased stocks of semi-manufactured and
finished wealth in the system, followed by an issue of money
of lesser amount proportional to, but normally less than,
the value of the additional finished stocks. In practice the
issue would be determined by the price-level as indicator,
with the returns of unemployment and the condition of
industry as guiding indications.
(14) If the issue of money precedes abstinence the
stocks of finished wealth in the system are permanently
depleted and cannot be restored. This raises prices and
tends after a short period to reduce employment and production even below the original level, at a monetary valuation inflated in proportion to the increase of money. The
rise of prices drains the gold out of the country, so that
credits are curtailed again and industrialists have to reduce
production.
(15) If the abstinence is not followed by increase in the
quantity of money the' additional stocks accumulated
cannot be sold without reducing production, and, in consequence, the employment of labour and capital to an extent
as much below the original level as the original abstinence
temporarily increased it above that level. A criticism in
the light of these conclusions is offered of the aims and
proposals of the Douglas school of Social Credit Reform.
(16) The building up of any industrial system, and, in
general, the accumulation of permanent capital, involves
liability for debts to individuals which can never be
repaid, and must therefore bear interest until written off
or redeemed. In an individualistic society, if the citizens
are not to be reduced to helots under this increasing burden
of capital indebtedness, taxation should be extended beyond
the purpose of defraying Government expenditure to pro-

300 WEALTH. VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
vide for the redemption of capital. The mathematical
laws for the simple and compound redemption of capital
debts are worked out. In this way the nation would come
in on the ground-floor and not after industries cease to
pay, as with current nationalisation proposals.
(17) Taxation, as hitherto confined to the purpose of
defraying Government expenditure, is entirely futile as an
instrument of permanent social amelioration, and should
be used in conjunction with, or alternatively to, the issue
of Government loans, for other specific purposes, such as
the building up of a greater volume of production, the
reconstruction of agriculture, the preservation of the due
ratio between production for consumption and new capital
production, and, in general, for more actively influencing
the proper development of the country, on the information
supplied by the national statistical authority.
(18) A national currency based on index number and
the intelligent expansion of the industrial system to its
full working capacity would promote foreign trade equally
with home trade, and better enable the nation to obtain by
import the food it needs in exchange for exports.
(19) It is suggested that the use of gold as a commodity
for international transactions, to adjust the balance of trade
between nations, should be extended. The League of
Nations should undertake, for the nations it includes, the
determination of the proportion of the total stock of gold
which each nation is to keep as a reserve, rather than attempt
to set up a fraudulent gold standard, the value of which
can be made to suit the purpose of a few powerful Central
Banks by a policy of hastening or retarding its demonetisation at their will.
(20) Whilst primarily intended to remove the menace
to international relations arising from the immense accumulations of redundant gold, and to permit of its -complete
demonetisation safely by any country desirous of adopting
an invariable standard of value based 'on index number,
the use of gold as national reserves would serve a valuable
purpose in stabilising international price-level and damping

SUMMARY OF PRACTICAL CONCLUSIONS 301
out violent fluctuation of the foreign exchanges due to
temporary alternations in the balance of trade. But it is
not proposed to fix or "peg" these, but to let them find
their own level according to the standards of value and
systems of currency adopted in the various countries.
(21) The national reserve of gold, acting as a barometer
indicating the ratio of imports to exports, should be maintained by suitable means between defined limits of variation.
As a. possible means, it is suggested that, on information
supplied by the national statistical authority, imports
could be checked by duties and exports encouraged by
bounties if the barometer fell, and vice versa if it rose.
(22) It is claimed that these suggested reforms, whilst
they do not entirely meet the deeper economic causes of
social unrest, are necessary steps if an individualistic society
is to continue and the nation in the future is to be in a
position to deal with a further displacement of men by
machinery and the methods of mass production, and to
distribute monetary titles to consume in proportion to the
quantity of wealth capable of being produced, rather than
to the number of workers employed in production.
CONCLUSION.

The stinging-nettle of economics, boldly grasped, need no
longer obstruct the path of the social reformer who would
give peace and economic freedom to the world. Its power
to sting resides only in silly confusions which the world has
outgrown, and which, in a scientific and mechanical age,
even a bright child might be trusted to see through. Never
again should there be any fear of disinterested disagreement
as to the nature and the solution of the paradox of poverty
and riches.
These old confusions eradicated, from being a subject
like astrology or alchemy, economics will become a science.
Already the separation of its subject-matter into the
physical-wealth-and the psychological-debt-brings with
it the most astonishing simplification. There will, of course,

302 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
be plenty of people who will argue that the psychological is
as important as the physical. But few will have the hardihood to claim that the understanding of the psychological
side can offset crude initial physical misconceptions between
wealth and debt and the vulgar perpetual motion fallacy of
the older economists. Such errors would have precisely the
effect they have already produced in a world administered
by and made up of supermen and angels.
Democracy so far has but seized the shadow and has yet
to grasp the substance of sovereignty or be discredited for
all time. Its first step must be to end the conspiracy of
silence in its organs of publicity and instruction concerning
the one prerogative of government which underlies and
controls all effective political action, and to insist upon its
monetary system being as public and open to criticism and
conscious alteration as its political system.
With adequate knowledge of the physical realities that
dominate the economic affairs of peoples, the road is clear
for unlimited progress and the attainment of universal
peace and prosperity. The evils that in the past have
paralysed the very heart of nations lie patent and beyond
concealment. So they pass beyond the power of further
harm. Only that rarest kind of courage-intellectual
fearlessness and honesty to face things as they are and not
as they appear-is required to abolish poverty and economic degradation from our midst in less time than the
War took to run its course. Whilst on the international
horizon there dawns the hope that a rational solution may
be found to the problem of modern war, and a better use
be made of the prodigal gift of science than to destroy
the surplus wealth and population in fighting for markets
and the increase of national debts.
Were all the most powerful vested interests in the world
solid and interlinked against the cause of humanity and
freedom, were money, the lust of power and the distilled
essence of all the superstitions that have ever swayed the
minds of men, arrayed against the growth of knowledge,
who need doubt the ultimate issue 1 The road is open for

SUMMARY OF PRACTICAL CONCLUSIONS

303

all men and women of good-will to drive onwards to their
goal.
In the eight years that have elapsed since Peace, the
clouds of darkness have again descended, and already
people know in their hearts that it is only a matter of time
before another war will come, greater and more terrible
than the last in proportion as it is delayed. Not an iota of
the fundamental economic causes which produced the last
has been altered. The peace has abundantly sown the
seeds of future inevitable national conflict. The vast
potential productivity of the industrialised world, particularly in the engineering and chemical industries, must find
an outlet. If that outlet is by financial folly denied it in
the building up and reconstruction of the home-life of
nations, it remains as a direct and powerful incentive to the
fomenting of war.
If anyone doubts, let them visit, for example, a modern
steel works-of which there are many in this country, each
alone, it is estimated, capable of supplying the total national
requirements in our present impoverished state. Even if
he chanced on a day when the plant was in full operation,
he would see only a man here and there doing almost
nothing to speak of, where, only a generation ago, the
place would have been alive with an army of almost naked
workmen rushing about and shepherding the moving flow
of incandescent steel. A few 15,OOO-h.p. motors, worked
with the sunshine of the summers of the palseozoic era,
have emancipated the human worker to leisure in the
streets, to live on the dole and rear his family so against
the day when the nation shall need them all again, and war,
the consumer, shall turn all this potential wealth into
national debt. Yet we affect to be shocked by the customs
of the ancients, who exposed their superfluous young naked
to the rigours of the winter's night, or sacrificed them with
music and religious fervour on the altars of Moloch and
Mammon.
The searchlight of the exact sciences can reach even into
such dark and secret recesses of the human soul. From

304 WEALTH. VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
the dawn of civilisation the deep inborn herd-instinct
towards the amassing of "wealth" has been in confl.ict
with the physical impossibility of doing so. So arises "the
principle of death," which Trotter 1 has recognised as
embodied in the very structure and substance of all human
constructive social effort. As with earlier civilisations, so,
it would appear, with ours-it has swung laboriously up to
its meaningless apogee only to lapse again into darkness,
fated, like them, possibly, to leave no trace in human
memory, or but the faint and dubious whisper of tradition.
The wheels of God grind small, but they grind exceeding
slow. 0 future! we the dying salute thee! The course is
set, the race is nearly run. Time, the destroyer, is on our
heels. Our Youth is spent, and old and feeble are the puppet
hands gold chooses to direct our destiny. Give us back,
o powers of the light! but one more hour before the pendulum of night descends again. The lamp is lit, but its
beam needs time to grow ere those to come can hope to
grope their way. Slow down the sunset and upspeed the
dawn, lest youth resurgent should arrive too late.
1 Instinct« oJ the Herd in Peace and War, W. Trotter, 1919,
p. 241, .. The Instability of Oivihsation."

ON THE RECENT MASSACRE.
(After Milton.)
Avenge, 0 Lord, thy slaughtered sons, the Old
World shambles richening with their scattered bones;
Ev'n them who kept thy truth, the scoffer owns,
When all our fathers worshipped gods of gold.
The generous quest of youth and science sold,
The surplus changed for ever-bearing loans,
The wreck-strewn shores and devastated zones
Of war forget not; resurrect their mould.
The flower the fire has mown, the roots decay,
The dust and ashes of the harvest sow
In every cot and croft· where still doth sway
The money tyrant, that from these may grow
A hundred-fold, who having learned thy way
Early may By the Babylonian woe.
F. S.

NAME INDEX
Allison, Sir Archibald, 185
Aristotle, 72, 75
Becquerel, Henri, 27
Berkeley, Bishop, 73, 100
Bilgram, Hugo, 154, 219
Bragg, Sir William, 27
Brahe, Tycho, 185
Buchner, Eo, 42
Butler, Samuel, 22

Csnnan, Edwin, 83
Cicero,99
Copemicus, Nicholas, 185
Curie, M. and Mme., 27
Del Mar, Alexander, 185
Demosthenes, 73
Dick, Emst, 168
Douglas, Major C. Ho, 255, 299
Ferrero, G., 185, 187
Fisher,lrving, 80, 167,170,175,190,
209
Ford, Henry, 203, 263
Galileo, Galilei, 292
George Ill, King, 142
George V, King, 82, 132, 163, 202
Gesell, Silvio, 170
Haber, s., 119
Haldane, J. B. S., 24
Hood, Thomas, 131
Horace,99
Huxley, T. H., 292
Joly, John, 27, 46

Kapila,77
Keynes, s. Mo,88,158,166,175,213
King, W. J., 171
Kitson, Arthur, 170
Kubla Khan, 132, 144
La Salle, Robert Cavelier, 28
Leacock, Stephen, 90, 172
MacLeod, H. Do, 75, 80, 81, 82, 93,
139, 190, 269
McKenna, Rt. Hon. Reginald, 159,
189, 197,282
Macrosty, H. W., 159, 190
Malthus, T. R., 89
Marsden, V. E., 289
Marshall, Alfred, 84, 85
Marx, Karl, 73, 98, 101, 113, 125
Meulen, Henry, 151
Mill, John Stuart, 63, 70, 74, 75,77,
81,84, 189
Milton, John, 305
Moissan, Henri, 45
Moses, 291
Newton, Isaac, 185
Nilus, Sergyei, 289
Petty, William, 73
Plato, 99
Poineare, Henri, 91
Polo. Marco, 144
Ramsay, Sir William, 27
Ricardo, David, 263
ROntgen, Wilhelm Konrad, 44
Rumford, Count, 37, 101
Ruskin, John, 80, 82, 85, 94 et seq.,
131
Rutherford, Sir Ernest., 27, 28

308 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
St. Paul, 33
Say, J. B., 80

Thomson, Sir Joseph, 27
Trotter, W., 90, 304

Sidgwick,llenry,93
Smith, Adam, 19, 20, 74, 84, 97,
263
Socrates, 93
Strachey, John, 23
Thompson, Benjsmin (Count Rumford), 37, 101

Watt, James, 19,20,35
Wells, H. G., 28, 291
Wilson, President Woodrow, 290
Withers, Hartley, 147, 149, 159, 189,
198, 221, 282
Xenophon, 44

SUBJECT INDEX
[Figures in heavy type are main references.

n. signifies foot-note.]

Absolute wealth, 93, 108
zero of temperature, 54 n., 56
Abstinence from consumption, 128, 235, 243, 248, 298
, Unwitting, 246, 248
ownership, 140 (see Virtual Wealth)
Accumulation, 64, 87, 90, 92, 99, 122, 126 et eeq., 148, 235, 237, 250 et seq.,
266, 281, 299.
Acetylene, 45
Activisation of molecules, 44
Adaptability of labour, 67,285
Agriculture, 38, 48, 50, 60, 67, 127, 130,255,263,289,300
Agricultural labourer, 61
Air as wealth, 63, 109
Alkali industry, 95
America, see United States
Ammonia, 120
Ammonia-soda process, 95
Annihilation of matter, 47
Atomic disintegration, 26, 46
energy,26,29,30,46
Available energy, see Energy
Balance-sheet, Bank, 146 n., 149
Bank Charter Act, 153, 166, 173, 176
credit, 80, 132, 149, 153, 157, 160, 167, 243, 298
deposits, 148, 159, 162, 298
notes, 135, 145, 151, 153
of England, 150, 153, 193
overdrafts, 146 n.
rate, 168, 208
Banker, Psychology of, 244
Bankers as rulers, 77, lOO, 163, 169, 213, 290
, Goldsmiths as, 145
Banking, 71, 77, 111, 145 et seq., 162, 177, 243, 288, 296
Barter, 133, 166, 16~, 224, 279, 280
.. Berginisation .. of coal, 45
Big Five, The, 162

310 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
Birth control, 66, 292
Black Country, The, 94
Blind.alley occupations, 59
Bogus subscribers to War Loan, 193
Borax, 46
Boston Ethical Society, 170
Brownian movement, 103
Calorie, 51, 70, 118
Canada, 28,280
Cancellation of credit, 158, 168, 192, 244, 298
of money, 199,221,295,297
of part of National Debt, 198, 298
Oapital, by Karl Marx, 74, 98, 101, 125
Capital, 29, 80 n., 97, 117, 121, 122 et aeg., 228, 250 et aeg., 265 et atfJ..,
295,300
, Communal, 246
, Definition of, 50, 70
, Fluid, 244, 250
Levy, 90
required to equip a worker, 253
Carbides, 45
Carbohydrates, 41, 42
Oartuian Economica, 32
Cash per head of population, 160
, Ratio to deposits, 153, 167,247
Catalysts, 42, 43, 120
Chemical change and radiation, 43
Cheque currency, 135,146, 148, 152,160, 197,298
Child labour, 59, 125
China, Labour conditions in, 125
Chlorophyll, 36, 4]
Chrematistics, 73, 97, 109, 283
Circulation of money, 133, 136, 142, 161, 224, 242
Civilisation, Instability of, 30, 90, 304
Claims to wealth, 64, 82, 96, 99, 118, 134, 136, 139, 146, 266
Clearing House, Banker's, 160
Clothes, 113, 117
Coal, 29, 44, 46, 102, 117
Coinage, 74, 79, 82, 132, 136, 142, 145, 163, 167, 173, 180
Commerce, aee Chrematistics
Commodities, 74, 98, 99, 116
Commodity, Gold as a, 181, 279, 285, 300
theory of money, 175
Communalistic society, 70, 242, 261, 284
Compound interest, 70, 89, 90, 92,107,152,179
redemption of capital, 271 et atfJ..
Conscription, 283

INDEX

311

Conservation, Laws of, 47, 50, 103
of wealth, 102" 140, 294, 301
Consols, 82, 86
Conspiracy, financial, 289
of silence on money, 200, 291, 293, 302
Consumption, 64, 86,96, 116, 118, 121, 122,242
, Individual nature of, 130, 138, 265
Oosmioal energy, 46
Counterfeiting, 132, 141, 147, 163, 205
Credit, 73, 75, 78, 81, 118, 132, 217, 300 (see al80 Bank Credit)
, The two kinds of national, 138,255,258
Crown, Prerogative of the, 132, 163. 196,296
Currenoy based on index number, 211 et seq.
Current acoount deposits, see Bank Deposits
Cyanide gold-extraction process, 176
DaedalUB, by J. B. S. Haldane, 24
Dangers of money, 131
Death, The principle of (Trotter), 304
Debasement of the currency, 90. 134 n., 142, 172. 179, 254
Debt, 69, 75. 76. 89, 100 135, 148, 174, 204, 222, 240, 251, 254, 261, 271
, Foreign, 77, 181, 266, 284
, National, 64, 82, 86, 98, 139, 169, 222, 255, 272, 290, 295, 298, 302
Debtor-creditor standard of value. 182, 209, 207
Debtors tl. Creditors, 208, 212, 219, 247, 284
Defacement of coinage, 142
Deflation of currency, 140, 169, 175
Degrading oceupations, 59
Democracy, 85, 105. 142, 302
Deposits, Bank, 148, 159, 162,298
Depreciation of wealth. 99, 120, 122, 124, 266, 295
of Gold Standard, 176, 286
Diligence and Labour, 58, 114,294
Discovery, 26, 34, 126
Distinction between money and credit, 79, 81
specie and credit monies, 134
Distribution, 130 et seq., 228, 250 et eeq.
Dollar, Changes in the value of the, 171
Douglas scheme of Social Credit Reform, 255, 258, 299
Dynamo, 114, 121

East, Labour conditions in the, 125
, Paper money in the, 144
Economic dilemma, The, 63
freedom, 100, 105, 130
paradox, The, 20
Economics, Definltions and scope of. 83, 85, 87, 91, 183
, Life and, 73, 85, 94, 108, 120, 130

312 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
Economics, National, contrasted with individual, 33, 49 et eeq., 62 et Beg.,
78, 83, 86, 91, 93, 118, 130, 269
, Political and politic, 64
, The new, 170, 261, 292
Economising currency, 161, 181, 191, 248
Ectogenesis, 24
Efficiency of oil and steam engines, 55
Electric model of production system, 114
motor, efficiency of, 54
Emigration, 67
Endowment of motherhood, 255
Energy, Available, 39, 53, 56, 102, 108, 112, 118
, Cosmical and solar, 46, 102
, Flow of, 48, 52, 54, 104, 108, 116
, Heat, 51, 53
, Internal and external, contrasted, 37, 38, 104
, Origin of, 37, 39, 114
, Part played in human history, 27
, Potential, 103, 117
, Relation of, to wealth, 56, 61, 102, 116, 269, 294
, Struggle for, 49
, Waste, 52, 55, 112, 116, 120
Engineering and agriculture, 67,263
Entropy, 109
Enzymes, 42
Equilibrium, Economic, 227, 237
Erewhon, by Butler, 22
EryxiaB,93
Evils of currency shortage, 173 et eeq., 180, 211, 219, 232, 238, 241. 244,
247,299
of variable standard, 172
Evolution controversy in United States, 292
, Intuitive and rational, 48, 49
of money, 133, 140
, Parasitic character of, 49, 86, 104
, Stellar, 47
Exchange, 64, 73, 110, 127, 143,224,285
Exchanges, foreign, 279, 286
Exodus, 291
Exponential function, The, 179
External and internal energy, 37, 38, 104
Factory Acts, 95, 125
Federal Reserve Banks of the U.S.A., 159
Fertilisers, 38, 116
Fictitious loans, 188, 197, 214, 230, 244, 296
money, 157, 158, 192
Finance, 71, 201, 252, 289

INDEX

313

Financial restriction on production, 21, 49, 57, 244, 290, 302
Five, The Big, 162
Fixing the value of money, 212
Food, 60, 66, 110, 113, 116, 118, 127, 277, 288, 294, 300
Foot-pound, 61
Foreign debts, 77, 181, 266, 284
exchanges, 279, 286
trade, 67, 127, 144, 167, 168, 169,252,266,277,284
Fraudulent standard, Gold a, 17011.., 180, 300
Freedom, Economic, 100, 105, 130
French franc, 166, 213
Future policy of this country, 127
,,-rays of radium, 44
Genuine and fictitious loans, 188, 199, 240
German reparations, 282
Glasgow, 19,94
Glut, 247, 285, 297
Gold, 56, 79, 80, 83, 91, 106, 132, 134, 136, 143, 164, 107, 169, 170, 177,247,
286,297
basis of currency, 161, 169, 213, 279, 290
mining, 143, 173-4, 176, 185
Standard, Depreciation of, 176, 286
Golden calf, Worship of the, 107, 132, 291
Goldsmiths as bankers, 145
Goods, Relation between price and, 214
Governor of the steam engine analogy, 219, 297
Gravitation and levitation, 72, 78
Haber process, 119
Heat-energy, 61, 63
, Kinetic theory of, 62
Waste, 52, 55, 108, 116, 120
Helium and hydrogen, 26, 47
Herd-instincta, 65, 90, 92, 104, 107
Hoarding, 177, 180, 187, 215, 217, 237
Hong Kong, Labour conditions in, 125
Horse-power, 51
Human effictency, 110, 123
Idealism e. Reality, 203
Imports, 247, 266, 280, 282, 287, 300
, Invisible, 96, 281, 282
Impossibility of perpetual motion, 50, 52, 56, 86, 107, 123, 270, 302
Income, 83, 84, 97, 215,295
and Virtual Wealth, 138, 215
tax, 196, 272
Iucrement of wealth, 106, 120, 129, 262

314

WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT

Index number, 209 et seq., 297
Individualistic society, 70, 90,188,196,242,261,264,269,270,284,299, 301
Infiation of the currency, 140, 175,247,293
Interest, 70, 82, 86, 121
-bearing theory of wealth, 85
, Compound, see Compound Interest
, Net, 124
on capital, 86, 124, 267, 281
on money, 82, 106, 132, 138, 141, 162, 168, 169, 179, 188, 193,
19li,298
, Origin of, 30, 124, 126, 179, 288 et seq.
, see Rate of Interest
Internal and external energy, 37, 38, 104
energy of the earth, 46
International money, 165, 167, 169, 181, 278, 286
relations, 277 et seq.
Irwersion of Science, The, 32
Investment, 231, 273, 283
Issue of new money, 238, 241, 295, 297
Italy, 249
Jews and finance, 96, 289, 291
Joint ownership of property, 80, 135 et eeq.
Just and real wages, 182, 208, 298
Kinetic theory of gases, 90
of heat, 52, 103
Kirkcaldy, 20, 30
Kubla Khan's currency, 132, 144

rl

sign, definition of, 135
Labour, adaptability of, 67, 285
Labour and Diligence, 58, 114,294
and women, 59, 60, 125
, Child, 59. 125
conditions in the East, 125
Lachine, 28
Laws of conservation, 47. 50, 103
of thermodynamics. 50. 52, 54. 102, 108
Lead, 26
League of Nations, 181, 290, 300
Leisure, 86, 87. 89, 125 et seq. 281
Leisured class. 105, 268, 273
Levitation, 78
Levy, Capital, 90
Liberty of thought, 292
Limitation of production and consumption. 246
Loans,~oney, 146, 155, 186, 199
Lusitania, The, 254

INDEX

315

Mass production, 59, 60, 301
Maslfacre, On the Recent, 305

Mathematical appendix on redemption of capital, 274
Matter, Conservation of, 47
, Annihilation of, 47
Maurl!tania, The, 254
Mercantile system, The, 74, 83
Mercantile or commodity theory of money, 175
Metabolism, 41, 48, 46, 112
Mining, 60, 102
,gold, 143, 173-4, 176, 185
Mint, The Royal, 132
Monetary data, 159, 200
Money, 71,75, 78, 79,82, lOO, 118,130 et seq., 151 et af?q.,164 et af?q., 184
et eeq., 292, 295.
, Circulation of, 133, 136, 142, 161, 224, 242
, Definitions of, 82, 134, 157, 190
, Fictitious, 157, 158, 192
, International, 165, 167, 169, 181, 278, 286
loans, 146, 155, 186, 199
, Quantity of, see Quantity of Money
, Quantity theory of, aee Quantity Theory.
Moratorium, The, 149, 160, 169,191,247
Motherhood, Endowment of, 255
Movement, Brownian, 103
Mutual credit, 217-19
National credit, Two kinds of, 138, 255, 258
dividend,242, 255, 263
gold reserve, 286,301
money system, 184 et seq., 298
paper money, 152, 192, 198
Physical Laboratory, 209, 297
purchasing power, 159, 197
Nationalisation, 255, 267, 271, 300
Nations, League of, 181, 290, 300
Natural and unnatural processes, 52, 54, 61
Necessary quantity of money, 233 et seq.
Negative quantities, 69, 137, 139,295
New money, Issue of, 238, 241, 295, 297
, Relation between abstinence and, 239, 242, 248
Niagara, 96, 101
Nitric acid, 119, 120
Nitrogen, Fixation of, 119
in agriculture, 38, 119
No-wealth, Zero of, 76, 78, 137

Oil, Energy of, 40, 57
engine, efficiency of, 53

316 WEALTH. VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
Oil, Origin of, 45
Origin of bank depoBits, 148, 189
of energy, 37, 39, 114
of interest, 30, 124, 126, 179, 268 et 8eq.
Overdrafts, bank, 146 n.
Ownership of property, 8ee Property
Paper money, 132, 135, 136, 144, 152, 187, 205
Paradox, The economic, 20, 301
Parasitic character of evolution, 49, 86, 104
Pensions, Widows', 255
Periodical receipt, 84, 132, 162
Permanent and perishable wealth, 116 et seq., 124, 126, 173, 250, 269, 295
Perpetual motion fallacy, 50, 52, 56, 86, 107, 123, 270, 302
Physiocrats, The, 25, 73, 84
Platinum, 177,278
Politicians, 151, 201, 280, 288, 296
Population, Expansion of, 66 et seq., 89
Poverty, 19, 57, 65, 98, 121, 162,294,301
Power, Definition of, 117
farming, 67, 263
Prerogative of the Crown, 132, 163, 196,296
Price, 62, 111,112, 143, 214, 229, 245
-level, 140,164, 169, 171, 173, 181, 208, 213
,Relation between goods and, 214
Prices, Cause of rise of, 235, 237, 244, 246, 248, 299
Private issue of money, 147, 163, 196,201,206,293,296
Producers, Definition of, 62
Production, 110, 114, 117 et seq., 125, 130, 113 et seq., 179, 199, 226, 230
et seq., 246
, Financial restrictions on, 21, 49, 57, 244, 290, 302
, How to increase, 230, 299
system, Electric model of, 115
Progress, 86, 89, 178, 302
Property, Ownership of, 71, 74, 77 et8eq., 93, lOO, 106, 109,135, 140, 146,
156,223,253,261,266,267,273,283
,Joint, 80, 135 et 8eq.
Protection, 280, 281, 287
Protocols oJ Zion, 289 n.
Psychical research, 292
Psychology of banker, 244
Pymmiding of credit, 153, 155
Purchasing power, 75, 80, 81, 131, 139, 164 et 8eq., 199, 203, 297
of public, 159, 197
Qua.ntities, Negative, 69, 137, 139, 295
Quantity of gold, 178

INDEX

317

Q.uantityofmoney, 132, 138, 140, 158, 164, 170, 179,204,211,217,233,
296,297
theory of money, 175, 214, 232 n.
Racial questions, 65, 66
J;tadiation, 44, 53
and chemical change, 43
Radioactivity, 26, 46
Radium, 38, 44
Rate, Bank, 168, 208
Rate of interest and value of principal, 99
Rays, X· or Rontgen, 44
,,-,44
Real income, 84
and just wages, 182, 208, 298
Realisation of investment, 231, 236
Redemption of National Debt, 98, 254 (see also Issue of New Money)
of capital, 264 et seq., 300
Refrigeration, 55
Relativity, Theory of, 46
of riches, 96
Remedy for fictitious loans, 197
Rent, interest and profit, 20, 63
Rentier and price-level, 166, 208, 213
Reparations, 282
Repayment of capital debts impossible, 253, 281, 299
Reply to misunderstandings, 221
RevoZ,ution by Reason, by J. Strachey, 23
Revolution, The Industrial, 95, 143, 192
Rise of prices, Cause of, 235, 237, 244, 246, 248, 299
Roman Catholic Church and usury, 187
Royal Prerogative, 132, 163, 196, 296
Russia, 74, 249, 279
.. Safe" ratio of cash to credit, 153, 154, 198, 247
Sale, 133, 175,224,231
Salvation of society, 242
Satisfaction and utility, 85
Saving, 221, 235, 236, 266, 269, 298
Science and government, 32, 71, 155
7 Is economics a, 31, 33, 64, 73, 87, 90, 91, 292, 301
, Physical and psychical, 110. 140,230
, The doubtful heritage of, 253, 299
, The tendency to standardisation in, 22
the world ferment, 18,25
w. Finance, 201
Second law of thermodynamics, 52, 54
Services, Skilled, 62, 64, 84, 111

318 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
Shortage of currency, Evils of, 173 et eeq., 180, 211, 219, 232, 238, 241, 244,
247,299
Simple redemption of capital, 272, 276
Sinking Fund, 222, 284
Six possible operations, The, 231
Slavery; 71, 105, 132
Smoke problem, The, 95
Social credit reform, 255, 299
Socialism, 249, 265, 270
Species, Origin of, 34
Spectroscopy of stars, 47
Speculators, 62, 221, 249
Spur of civilisation, Gold as the, 177
Stabilisation of currency, 172, 199, 204, 285, 297
of exchanges, 285, 287, 300
Stamp duties proposed on bank loans, 197,298
Standard of value, 100, 165, 166, 175, 297
Statistical regulation of trade balance, 287
Statisticians, Proposed board of, 209, 287, 297, 300
Steam engine, The, 19, 53, 54
Steel works, Modem, 303
Stellar evolution, 47
Stock Exchange, 191, 198
Suffioni, 46
Summary of practical conclusions, 294 et seq.
Surplus production, 257,282
Symbolism, An economic, 222 et eeq.
Tariffs, 280
Taxation, 194,207,236,241,242,244,254,271,284,298,299
Taxpayers defrauded, 193, 195
Terminable interest payments, 272, 273, 284
The Times, Quotation from, 149
Theory of Oredit, The, by MacLeod, 76, 262
Thermodynamic categories of wealth, 115
Thermodynamics, 50, 52, 54, 70, 90, 102, 108
Tidal power, 40
.. Time-deposits," 148, 159, 188, 190
" Tinkering with the currency," 185, 242
Token money, 141, 142, 207
Trade-cycle, 173, 180, 181, 248
balance, 278, 282, 285, 287
Transmutation, 27,28
Travels of Marco Polo, The, 144
Treason, The private issue of money High, 147,201,206,293
Treasury notes, 156, 173, 192, 194, 197, 201, 222
Trigger action, 58
Triple origin of value of precious metals, 143

INDEX

319

UnelI1ployrnent, 19,30,57, 162, 199~236,238,241,294
United states, 59, 97, 154 n., 159, 167 n., 170, 171, 188, 191, 193, 219,279,
281, 286, 292
Unto thi8 Last, by J. Ruskin, 96, 99
Usury, 90, 160, 174, 186 et 8eg.
Utility and satisfaction, 85
Value, 62, 73, 93, 101, Ill, 112, 140, 142, 143
of money, 8ee Purchasing Power
, Standard of, 100, 165, 166, 175,297
, Store of, 178
Variability of gold, 169, 170, 172, 177
of the dollar, 171
Velocity of circulation, 161, 232
Virtual wealth, 78,136 et seq., 160, 164, 175, 191, 200 et 86q., 255, 289, 290,
296
Wage.earners, 172, 182, 183, 212, 265, 301
Wages, Real and just, 182,208,298
Want, 64, 73, 94, 109
War, Effect of, upon gold-mining, 174, 176
foreign holdings, 282
War finance, 193
Fund, 266
Loan, 82, 86,99, 193
Wars, Economic, 267, 283, 302
Waste heat, see Heat
Water.power, 38, 40, 94, 95
Wealth, 83, 85, 88, 97
Wealih,abso1ute, 93, 108
, acquisition of, 73, 91, 139
and debt, 25, 56, 64, 69, 78, 87, 97, 100, 132, 135, 271, 279, 283,
291, 294, 301, 303
Diligence, 61
discovery, 56, 61, 64, 67, 90, 110, 112
energy, 56, 57,102, 110, 117, 118,294
Labour, 73, 85, 86, 110, 112, 116
leisure, 87, 125
Dloney, 71, 203,226,294
ownership, 69
purchasing power, 81, 173, 203
Roman law, 72
the ancients, 73, 141
the human will, 76, 90, 104, 112, 132
utility, 110, 120
, Conservation of, 102, 140,294,301
, Definition of, 72, 98, 99, 108, 142
• Finished and semi-manufeorured, 234, 239, 240, 299

320 WEALTH, VIRTUAL WEALTH AND DEBT
Wealth, Fixed, 250
, Flow and store theory of, contrasted, 58, 121, 126
, Increment of, 106, 120, 129, 262
, Interest-beanng theory of, 85, 87
, National and individual, 62, 64, 78, 81, 86, 93, 121, 130, 139,202,
251,255
, Permanent and perishable, 116 et seq., 124, 126, 173, 250, 269, 295
, Physical nature of, 112, 294
, Unlimited producibility of, 30, 65, 294
Weights and measures, Standards of, 172,209
Widows' pensions, 255
Wind-power, 40
Women and Labour, 59, 60, 125
, Economic dependence of, 261
Work, Physical, 51, 53, 56, 113, 117
Working by climbing, 53
Worthless currencies, 172
X.rays,44
Yeast, 42
Zero, Absolute, of temperature, 54 n., 56
of no-wealth, 76, 78, 138
Zion, Protocols 0/, 289 n.
Zuyder Zee, 76

THE SOLUTION OF THE
ECONOMIC PARADOX

