£-

Qaea

009979
'©0
2

-

0)
0

.

WT

+=A

_

.
#4 A's

5

5
0 =
Yy

-

_

VEL

=/ol

|

LEX MERCATORLA,
OR

The Ancient Law-Merchant.
Jooo0CoOoDnIDD
[ol

>©

"Diuided into three Parts :

|

ACCORDING
TO
THE
Eſſentiall Parts of Trafhcke.

LON

NECESSARIE

FOR

ALL

Staresmen, Iudges, Magiſtrates, Temporall and Ciuile Lawyers, Mint-men, Merchants, Marriners, and all others
negating in all places of
the World.

009

BY GERARD

000

Merchant.

Do

O00
©

P

%

'O.

OAH

YA

TS.

.
.

Wu

2

%

'

A

%

b4

vis

©9

ISLIP,

© oa)Coc- ©O0O0O7)

<>

HIS
,

4”

:
F =Y
4s ag,”

GC)
wn
WONG
=

LONDON,
Printed by AtaM

(of0,———_—

4

aS

Joh

Salus Populi, ſuprema Lex eſto.

—

|

MALYNES

|—

[f

YO.

__—_

»

.

=

EC
—-

\T

.
4

S

.

ON

\

A

VR;
Yay
&

AQ

by:
.
=E

=

——

* eAnno Dom. 1622.)

©

+.

{I
C1
2X

C

> L

»7

.

,

415103} SCI 45449357 02 MR ABN?

,

: ,

l

Cs

Y

.
”

$47

-

”

*

b,

ws...

"

«©

or

.courvuwt

UG EGG
TOE WEMOS

.

»

$64

8

et

en gr

en wer

ATR 7 1.4 977"

'8

+

<<
Wo

ALA
LO
ATS
;

AND

__

P

4

:

%

*

:

.

oy

®

|
1

£

s

CRP
,

þ

v

«7
”_

$4811

s

.

k

TEL.
.

=

EY

Fr.

|

-

Re

|

HIGH
MIGHTIE MONARCH
BY

7 AMES,

THE

OF

GRACE

GOD, KING OF GREAT BRITTAINE, FRANCE, AND IRELAND,

DEFENDOR
THE
FAITH,

OF

|

Moſt Dread and Grations Soneraiont,

EAFLRRFrAf He ace of Monarchie niuſt
| needes be the Supreameſt
thing vnderthe cope of Hea-

:

uen,when Kings are not on-

ly Gods Lieutenants vpon
earth , and fit ypon. his
chrone; but alſo are called
Gods, by God himſelfe, in
regard of their Tranſcendent Prehenunences ahd

Prerogatiues, whereby they maintaine Refigion
and Fuſtice, whichare che onely true ſupporters

and fundamentall ſtayes of all Kingdomes arid

Common-weales, ſo naturally vnited and conjoyned, that where both of them are nor, pro-

perly there can be neither, Theſe high eAttributes cauſe their Lawesto be ſacted,and cori-

ſequently religiouſly to be obſerued ; whereby

Fuſhce 1s adminiſtred , which is Diftributive

and Commutatiue . The Cmmutatine part inclu|

A 3

deth

Tut
_—

——

EreiSTLE
——

—

©

O—

—

—

- deth Traffick, which 1s theſole peaceable intro-

mentto inrich kingdomes and common-weales,

by the meanes of Equalitie and Equitie, perfor-

med eſpecially by the Law-Merchant by reaſon
of her ſtabilitie. For albeit that the government

of the ſaid kingdomes and common-weales doth

_ differone from another : 1 Inthemaking of lawes

and ordinances for their owne gouernment; 2 In
the making of VVar, Peace, or I ruce with for-

reine nations ; 3 Inthe prouiding of money with-

in themſelves for their ſafegard and defence; 4 In

the election of chiefe officers & magiſtrates; and
5. In the manner of the adminiſtration of Fuſtice,
wherein many mutations are incident: yet the

Law-Merchant hath alwaies beene found ſ-mper

eadem, that is, conſtant and permanent without
abrogation, according to her moſt auncient cu-

ſtomes, concurring with the law of nations in all

countries.Greatreuerenceisdue vnto Lawesatall
times,and hath beeneinallages. Solon cauſed the

Athenians to {weare to the obferuation of his

Lawes during the time of one hundreth yeares:

Licurpus did imbrace a voluntarie perpetuall ex-

tle,to |2K hislawes obſerued by the Lacedemontans yntill his return, intending neuer toreturn :
and the Romans did ſuffer their old law of twelue

tables(thoughvniuſt inmany points)to decay by

little & little, rather thantomake a ſudden alterationof it,tending to the contempr of laws : greater:reuefence then 1s due to the Law- Merchant
which hath proued alwates firme andinwolable.
VVile

Sha
*nAges
as
"as
,

WS

DzDicaTORIE.
FR

——————

VViſe men haue obſerued, that happie are
thoſe Common-weales which are gouerned by

lR—_

Philoſophers; happier 1srhat King whocanwiſely gouerne them ; but moſt happie 1s your Maieſtie in whom true Philoſophte doth raigne and

proſper, as vines do in eminent places, by an in-

eſtimable treaſure of an obſeruing, dilcerning,

and applying Princely judgement, gouerning

- your kingdomes and dominions.
I he conſidera-

tion whereof ( accompanied with my bounden

. duerie) hath emboldned me of late,to dedicate

vnto your ſacred Maieſtie,a little treatiſe inritled

The maintenance offree Trade, wherein mentton 1s made of this Yolume,which hkewiſe 1s tobe
preſented vnto your highneſle , for it befalleth
vnto me, as it did tothe Philoſopher, who (by

progreſsion in wiſedome,endeauoring to attaine

to the perfection of knowledge) did perceiue

that the neerer approaching thereunto, ſeemed

to him to be Garth oft : ſo my endeuours(ſtr;-

uing to deſerue ſome thingsatyour royal hands)

ſeeme vnto me to merit leaſt of all : Bur being

confident of your moſt gratious benignirie and

ſuperexceeding grace,l do offer vnto your moſt

judiciall eyes this Law-Merchant, deſcribed according to the three effentiall parts of Trafficke
with the means wherby the wealth of your Majeſties kingdomes and domintons may be increa-

ſed and preſerued, which being done by juſt and
politike courſes,may properly becalled the Preheminent ftudie ofPrinces,grounded,by (ommu|

A 4

tatio

Tus

FErisrucse

DeDpicartoriIe.

tatio: negotiativa, vpon the rule of Equaliticand

Equitie as aforeſaid, obſerued by your High wildome vpon the Predominant part of Iade,

which is the myſterie of Exchange for Moneys

betweene vs and forreme N{ations,wherein your

Highnefle doth {urpaile all the Treatiſes and

Conferences had by your noble aunceſtors and

predeceſſors Kings, with other Princes and
States,Ifyour molt excellent Maieſtie therefore

ſhall be pleaſed(from the Zodiaque of your gra-

tious aſpect)to caſt ſome refleting beames ypon .
the plaine ſuperficies of this Law-Merchant,cuerie [eel ſparke therein will become a flame, -and

all Merchants and others ſhall bee enabled to

draw (by the Diameter of it) Meridian lines of

your royall tauour, without which this Booke

may be compared to a Sunne dyall which is no

longer ſeruiceable , than whileſt the Sunne

| beames doe illuminate the ſame, In hope of
which ſuperaboundant fauour , I doe apoſtrophate-this Epiſtle, but doe multiplie my ardent
gg for your Maieſties moſt happie Raigne
long to indure ouer vs, to Gods glorie and
our comforts,
Your Maieſties moſt loyall
and obedient ſubiet
GERARD

MALINES.

—

———

_—

- ————IIW———_—

376

—c

—

—

—

—

—_

_

n

—

-

nn

eee

es rn

ns

LexeMercatoria.
the ſpirit, reſiding inthe heart of man, which the Anatomiſts de-

nloullevecch tobe a little concauitie, where the drops of the vitall
bloudareplaced in the heart, which are ſeared vp,and the place is
ſhrunke in bodies which haue been poiſoned.
Tomake application of this compariſon betweene the Soule and

Application Spirit,weſhall find by +he following diſcourſe, that cucnas the Spiriſon.
rit of manis predominant ouer the Soule and Bodie in all the ations
thereof,which by the bloud are quickned and preſcrued, cuen fo is
the Exchange for moneys by Bills of Exchanges, onerruling the
courſe of commodities and moneysin all places where the ation
of money is felt or ſeene, direRing the ſame (by ſome due propor-

tions )accordingly.

SOROS

<

Deg

OS OSDEOIEOSO

ID. ID IT

DEED
DHS

RH

EEE
HER

ID LI

EH EB
Ne

2NETTNS

EY

Reo

*%
5 } FED of

Of the Beginning of the Exchange for Moneys, by
Bills of Exchanges.
z coyned by the Romanes is. almoſt 1 goo yeares

SE

Co

&

Þy

ſince. Andeuen as money was inuented tobee
made of the beſt metralls, ro auoid the trouble-

>) ſome carriage of commoditics vp and downe,
A and from one countrey into another : So ( vpon

the like conſideration ) when other nations ( imitating the Romancs)
Thecauſeof did coyne moneys, Exchange by Bills for moneys was deuiſed, to
the Exchanges "0d both the dangerand aduenture of moneys and the rroubleſome
carriage thereof . This money now being made by diuers Nations
of ſeuerall ſtandards and diuers ſtamps and inſcriptions, (as a Marke
of Soueraigntie) cauſed them roappoint a cerraine Exchange,
for the

permutation of the ſeuerall ſorts of coynes in diuers countreys, without any tranſportation of the coyne, but giuing Parpro Pars, or value
for value, with a certaine allowance toaccomodate the Merchant :
and the officers to exccute the ſame, were called Numulary, 4rgenta-

r1#,and Colhbiſte,
that is to ſay, Namulary of Nummus or the coyneit

{elfe ; Argentary , becauſe the Siluer coyne was moſt vſuall in the

courſe of trafficke;and Collybite,becaule it fignificth a reward for Ex-

changing.

Here

—

Lex eMercatoria.

——

379

————————

Here now let ys obſerue foure manner of Exchanges which have

beene vſed, and in ſome countreys are yet continued, albeit ſome of
them areabrogated in England, commonly called Cambis Commune,

Cambio Reall, Cambio Sicco, and Cambio Fiftitio, which denomination
may be admitted.
|

The firſt manner of Exchange,called Cambio Commune, is properly
þ,
that Exchange which the ſaid Collzbitz, or common Exchangers did = ra
vie by the authoritie of Princes and Common-weales,, for the law- "One
tull and currant moneys of their Kingdomesand Territories ; which
was found to be veric expedient and neceſlarie, and was eſtablifhed
to preuent the exportation of money from one conntric intoanother countrie : and theſe Exchangers did deliver inall countries the
Money inone ſpecic, for the Moneys in other ſpecies by rhem rc-

ceivedasaforeſaid . Whereupon King Edward the third of England Jables of Ex:

cauſed certaine Tables to be ſer vp ar Douer and other places of
the realme, declaring the value of the ſaid ſundrie ſpecies of coyne
of all countries trafficking with his ſubies , and the allowance
which Merchants were to giue to haue their turnes ſerued; as may

©

appeare by the good Lawes made in hisrime, when there was Moneys coyned in diuers places of this Kingdome, and nor inone mint

onely, withinthe Tower of London . And this was long before the diſcoucric of the Weſt-Indies , from whence the ocean of Money
did run into Chriſtendome. And'tby the goucrnment of the ſaid
Tables, all was at the direction of the Maſter of the Kings Mint at
London,and with a correſpondetice of other Mints, namely ar Canturburie,at Kingſton vpon Hull, New-caſtle vpon Tine, Briſtoll,and

Exceter.And the Exchanger for the King at London did alſo depute
Exchangers in the moſt 'places , exceptrthat certaine Merchants of

Florence, called Friſcobaldi,were the Kings Exchangers at Kingſton, xriſcobatdithe

New-caſtle,and Exceter,who made the ſaid Exchanges of value for Exchangers.

value, with a reaſonable allowance; and by their meanes were all the

faid Mints ſet on worke, and the tranſportation of our Moneys was
preuented ; foras Biſhop Twrſids booke of Arithmeticke declareth,
by giuing par pro pari,or value for value, there was nogaine left to

the tranſporter.

The Kings of England did conſtitute theſe Exchangers, even as Kings Exchanthe Cambiadores and Banquers arevſed in other countries, being 5**
authoriſed by the King or Prince of the ſaid countries, eſpecially King Edward the firſt of England, who had two Exchangers, the
one called Cuſtes Camby infra Turrim, who had the charge in buying
of bullion,and to looke tothe coynage of Money within the realme,
now calledthe Warden of the Mint : the other was called Keeper of

the exchange and rechange within ot towards this realme, fot Moneys tobe paied i# pecie, by Bills of Exchahges beyond the ſeas. And
afterwards the faid Exchanges were made without naming the ſpe-

>,

cies, but according to the value of the ſeticrall coynes , and this was Cambio Re-

called Cambium Reg, or Royall Exchange, which catiſed Queene at.
Eliza-

em

a

——

Lex Mercatoria.
—

Elizabeth to name cheBurſe in London accordingly.

This office appeareth to haue been in the eleucnth yere of the ſaid

King Edw.by an Ac of Parliament madeat Acton Burnel,fince which
time the ſucceeding Kingsand Queenes haue continved the ſame by

ſixtcene ſeuerall Letters Patents . And whereas it ſeemed that the

ſaid two Exchangers could not execute their offices conueniently
being aſunder, it fell out, that in Hewrie the fixth his time, a Law

was made, by which both offices were put into one mans hand,

and ſo continued many yeares, vntill thetime of King Heprie the

Exchanges

diſcontinucd.

The Chronicle of Grafton

cight,when hecauſed baſe Moneys to be made at the ſeige of By]loigne, whercuponno certaine Exchange could be grounded : albeit that before that time, in the two and twentieth yeare of his
raigne, he cauſed a Proclamation to be made according roan old Statute made in the time of King Richard the ſecond, That no perſon

ſhould makeany Exchanges 4ontrarie to the ſaid meaning or At of
Parliament, vponpaine tobe taken to be the Kings mortall enemie,

and to forfeit althat he might forfeit. For in his noble fathers time
King Heprie the ſeuenth , the Bankers had inuented a courſe of mer-

- chandifing by Bills of Exchanges ; and eſpecially two other Exchanges,whichthey named Cambio ficco,and Cambio fidtitio.
3

Cambio (icco

This Cambio ficco,alies called drie Exchange, is in this manner : A

Merchant hath occaſion to vie, Yerbi gratia, one hundreth pounds,

which they will deliuer him in London, to be paied vnto their Factor

at Stoad : but hauing there no FaQtor of his owne, the ſaid Merchant

is contented to make his Bill of Exchange vpon the Bankers Factor,

payable to him the ſaid FaQtor, with order and aduice, that when

the ſaid Bill ſhall bedue, he ſhall charge him by Exchange againe,and

take vp the Money there, and hee will pay the ſame with the re-

changeand charges of Factoridge and Brokeridge: wherein they will

be ſure to make him pay verie great vſe or intereſt,of fifteene or

twenticin the hundreth for the taking vp of this Money,and to make
it more drier Exchange, they will be contented to take no Bill at all,

but the Merchants promiſe to pay it as other men doc at the ſame
time,dealing in Exchange for the ſaid place of Stoad,and in like ma-

ner for other places.
4

Cambio fitttio is yet more pernitious, and performed in this man-

Cambio fit ner : A Merchant(to kcepc his credit) being driuen to buy goods for

t50.

a ſhift, when Money is not to be had, and he will not be beholden

vnto others, comming vnto them ( as hauing ſtore of commodities

at all times) they faine that they hauc need of Money, and muſt
ſell their commodities for readie Money , Prouided alwaies ( ſay
they with louing proteſtations ) we will pleaſure you thus far, looke

what the goods come vnto , we will take it vp for you by Exchange
for Venice, Lyons, or ſome other place,ſo as you will pay vs for Exchange, Rechange,or any other incident charges : wherunto the merchantagreeing, then ſhall he be ſure topay ſoundly for the yſe of
the Money,and looſe exceedingly vpon the wares.
:
Thele

_—
6

.
—

—

——

—

——

Lex Mercatoria.
Theſe two biting manner of Exchanges being diſcouered,
were
by an Act of Parliament prohibited in the third and fourth yeare of
A

ny

AE

III

ee

ere

331
——

King Henriethe ſeuenth : afterwards (as is noted ) the Exchange be-

ing diſcontinued in the time of King Henrie the eight, it happened
thar the former abuſes cameto bee rite againe in rhe raigne of King

Edward the ſixth, which cauſed the vieof Exchange to bee vtterly Exchange was

forbidden for a ſhorttime . But as Ships cannot faile without water, forbidden

no more can trafficke ſubfiſt without Exchange in the accuſtomed
laces; ſothat the inconueniences appearing it was reſtored againe in
Laws of good dealing and reformation promiſed by other Princes, concerning the Royall Exchange . Burt inthe time of Queene

Marie it was againe neglected; who being married with King Philip the ſecond of Spaine, did connjue in thoſe' things, becauſe the

dominion of the Low-countreys were eſteemed to be vnder one

degree.

In the beginning of the raigne of Queene Ehzabeth, new com- Complaintsof
plaint were made of rhe new Exchanges, by Maſter Huſſey Courtmaſter of the Companie of Merchants Aduenturers ;but no man

couldapply or find a remedie to moderate the incqualitie of Exchanges, and to haue value for value, as appeareth by Letters Pattents

graunted to the old Lord Treaſurer Barghley, who did not execute
the ſamein three and twentie yeares aftcr for want of true diredtion,

to the great lofſe of the Realme, as may bee ſeene by a Commiſſion
in Blanke returned by diuers Merchants:albcit the Italian Merchants in thoſe daies could not denie the abuſes thereof
being expoſtulated withall , as by their politicke
Letters appeareth, vnder the hand of Acerbo
yelutell;, Suigo Canalcanti, and others,

who wanted not ſome vpholders to maintaine their private benefit.
£4.53

Lex «Ml ercatoria.
I

I

BSA Jedey Jet
CHAP,

IT.

—

| Of the true calculation of Moneys in exchange by Bills of ExFP
changes,according to Par pro part,
The true

ground of Ex-

changes.

FF.

46

>

_—

— He true royall Exchange for Moneys (by Bills of
@n W, Exchanges) is grounded ypon the weight, fine>
Be neſlc, and valuation of the Money of each counE

trie, accordirg tothe Pay, which is,value for va-

8
luc : and ſo is our Exchange of England groun5
©) dcd vpon the weightand fineneſle of our Monies
Ver
aforciaid, and the weight and fineneſle of the
Moneys of each other countrie, according to their ſeuerall ſtandards
proportionable in their valuation , which (being truely and iuſtly
made) maketh the price of Exchange for euerie place, according to
the denomination - :the Money, wherupon all Exchanges are made.
Theſe Exchanges do much differ in thename and proportion between the gold and filuer obſerued in moſt countries ; ſo that we are
toexamine and compare our weight aforeſaid , with the weight of
other countries,and the finetle of the ſterling ſtandard with the fineſſe
of the ſeuerall ſtandards of the coynes of other countries : and if we
The maner to differ not with them in the proportion betweene the gold and filuer,
calculate Ex then may our Exchanges run at one price both for gold and filuer, ta—_—
king the denomination according to the valuation of Monies of each
countries : and hereby ſhall we find how much finefiluer or gold our
pound ſterling containeth,8& what quantitie of other Monies of Germanie,[talie, France, the Low-countries, Eaſtland,and elſewhere we

are to haue in Exchange to counteruaile the ſame in the like weight
and fineneſſe anſwerable vnto ours, be it by the Pound, Doller, DuImaginaris Cat, Crowne, or any other imaginarie or reall coyne, giuing alwaies
andreall
=y2qlue for value, and receiuingthelike, which is called Par. But this
_
courſe of Exchange being of late yeares abuſed, and (as it were)
Par of Ex- made a merchandiſe, doth ouerrule the courſe of Commodities
and Moneys by rifing and falling in price, according to plentie

and ſcarcitie of Money, and in rcgard of diſcrepauncc and diſtance of time and place : which made ſome Merchants (by mtſtaking)tocompare the courſe of Commoditicsand Exchange to be
alike; asif the meaſure of athing,and the thing meaſured thereby
were

Lex eM ercatoria.
were alone, For cuen as money is Publica Menſura, or the publike

meaſures within the Realme betweene man and man : ſ0.is Exchange

for moneys, the publike meaſure betweene ys and forraine countries

for all commodities bought and fold , which therefore requiretha uns, Kc.

certaintie inthe calculationof the Par atoreſaid,admitting neucrtheleſſe an aduantage aboue rhe ſame, vpon occaſions oneitherſide.

This Exchange. is properly madeby Bills, when money is deliue-

red ſimply here in England, and Bills received forthe ſame, ro haue
the payment thereof in ſome. other countrey beyond the Seas, or
when thelike is done beyond the Seas, and the money is receiued
here in England, and that vpona certaine price agreed ypon between
partie and partie, which is termed the price of Exchange, whereof
Merchants haue the onely and whole difpoſing, and buy and ſell their
commodities beyond the Seas accordingly: without that few ornone
of them doe looke into the nature of Exchange, as aforeſaid , but only tothe preſent obieR, which is,toknow how the price of Exchange
oocthatthe time when they hauc occaſion todcale therewith : howbeit ſuch Merchants as neuer or ſeldome deale for commodities,
but

altogether for money by Exchange haue another obſeruation there-

in; and Merchants that will be Exchangers indeed , muſtknow perfealy the weight and fineneſfe of our Engliſh coyne, and of the forraine coynealſo, and compare the ſame togetherto make the ſaid calculation of Exchanges; wherein they are not tobe direRed by the va-

luation which is vacertaineand inconſtant, much leſſeby the tollera- Valuationof

tion of moneys beyond the Seas to goe currant aboue the ſaid valuation ; ſo that by authoritic they oughtto bee gouerned and direfted inconſtane.
herein, declaring the true value for value, or Par pro Part, as the verie
foundation of all Exchanges : becauſe this is nor a fit ſtudic tor euerie Merchants capacitie,and may be done neuerthelefle with great faCilitie, and withour interruption of trafficke,as ſhall be declared.
But to come firſt tothe particulars concerning weight, wec are to

know , that in all places beyond the Seas, _ vie fortheir moneys

(both of Gold and Siluer) the marke weight of eight ounces, heretofore ſpoken of,with the diuifion of twenric pennie weight,ortwentic
Engliſh, ſo-called beyond the Seas, and the ſubdiuiſion of twenticand

foure graines here, or thirtie twoazes or graines there . Theſe eight

ounces compared vntoour pound weight Troy of twelue ounces,are

within alittle all one, ounce for ounce in weight.But vpon the pound
of twelue ounces, as aforeſaid, which is one marke and a halfe marke

weight of theirs, it is found that in the ſaid proportion of a pound,

our weight is heauier than the weight of Germanic and the Low-

countries by three pennie weight; and than the weight of France, Iraly, Spaine, and Scorland, by foure pennie weight ; all which may be

conſidered in the price of Exchanges, inallowing more or lefſe for
the Par according as the foundation of the Exchange lycth, either
vpon our twentie Shillings iterling, or vpon their Crowne, Ducar,
Doller, Florin, or other coyne, which is properly the heador Radix
NL

Camby,

28 4

Lex Mercatoria.
—_—

The head of
Exchanges,or
Radix Camby.

Camby, whereupon Exchanges were made,

This weight is to bee

conſidered in the weight of the peece of coyne, and from the peeces
cothe number of them in the marke or pound weight aforeſaid,

Concerning the fineneſſe of moneys to be calculated in Exchange,

Fineneſſe of the ſame is knowne by weight, for it muſt bee diſtinguiſhed thereby,

moneyin E** that is to ſay, We oughtto know how much fine Silueror fine Gold
5.
thereisinthemarke or pound weight , of the ſundrie coynes of the
ſeuerall ſtandards of moneys of all Countreys, where Exchanges are
vied betweene vs and them : and to calculate the ſame vpon the

pound ſterling for ſome places, or ypon the Crowne, Ducat, Doller,
Florin, and other imaginarie coynes for other places, t the end wee
may haue fineneſſe anſwered by weight.
To vnderſtand the premiſles, let vs ſuppoſe that a Merchant ſtranger commeth into the Realm,and bringeth with him many vnknowne

and ſtrange coynes,tohaue the coyne of the Realme for it,according
The manner

—_—
1gnt an

Sncnefleof
Aa

tovalue for value by weight and finenes, and that the ſaid Merchant
( hauing weighed the ſaid coynes ) hath a ſufficient knowledge of the
quantitie of fine Siluer and Gold which is contained in the ſaid

weight ,2 and his deſire is to. have the ſame
anſwered
vnto him by the.
.
.
.

like weight, and by the like fineneſle in weight in moneys of this
Kingdome . Herein{ nodoubt) he will beafſured, whart fineneſſe or
fine Siluer and Gold thereis in our moneys, and that he may haue the
ſame by weight inthe ſaid quantitie of coynes, whereupon (after the
weight of our moneys)hee will calculate diſtintly what quantitie of
Siluer and Gold there is inthe ſaid moneys, and what quantitic of
Copper, and ſo will require the full quantitie both of the Siluerand
Gold, and of the Copper accordingly. Sois it with the matter of Ex-

change, grounded vpon the verie value of coynes,

if there were no

valuation whereby the price of coynes is baptized and receiueth a
name, which giueth a denomination of price vnto the ſaid coynes, or
vnto the Exchanges of the ſaid coynes, which in the manner afore-

ſaid maketh rhe ſaid price of Exchange.
Bur fo long as the calculation remainerh ypon weight and finenes,
Definition of withour reſpe had tothe valuation, ſo long may wee cſteeme the
Alle,” and faid coynes to bee in the nature of Marterialls or Bullion ; that isto
fay, Prohibired moneys to bee currant, which forraine Nations call
Bullion,as it werevnlawfull and fit tro be molten down, from whence

the word Bullion is deriued, or which other nations call tro be Mate-

rialls, or Maſſe of Gold and Siluer,cucnas Copper is called Allay or
Valuationof

mixture thereunto.
Concerning the Valuation of moneys, wee haue alreadie in the

moneys in Second Parr intreated thereof , compendiouſly and ſubſtantially : ſo
&
thatinthisplace weare to obſerue the denomination, which giueth a
Proportion Tate or price vnto Exchanges, even as it doth vnto the ſeuerall Spe-

berwoen
Gold cies of money intheir kind.

Exchanges
Concerning the proportion betweene the Gold and Siluer in the
+ Brand {aid Exchanges wee are to obſerue , That when the proportion be-

rweene

Lex Mercatorta.
«
————

tweene the Gold and Siluer was 12 to one, or one pound of Siluer

toan ounce of Gold ( which is now 13 + toone;)then the enſuing

calculation in Exchange was true,namely,to account eight Carrats of

fine Gold,or foure ounces of fine Siluer for twentie ſhillings ſterling,
reſeruing in the ſaid rate a reaſonable gaine for the Merchants to-

wards their gaines and charges.But now that the faid proportion is al-

tered, and that thirteene ounces and - part, or foure pennie weight is

appointed to be giuen for one ounce;
of neceflitie it followeth that

the Siluer is vnderualued, and the Gold aduanced : ſo that in matter
of Exchange there ariſeth a twofold conſideration, the one to bee

eſtabliſhed in Par, according to the Gold coynes,and the other after
the Siluer coynes . And this meaſure of Exchange berweene vs and
forraine Nations is verie tender and delicate, yet Merchants ocecaſtons inthe courſe of-trafficke, doe exceed the ſaid limitation vpon
plentie or ſcarſitic of money, and the many deliverers or takers vp
of the ſaid moneys according thereunto, which is properto confirme
the mutabilitie of Exchanging aboue the ſaid Pay, bur neuer vnder
the ſame: forit is like vnto the Needleof the Compaſle,which hath
- beene touched vpon the fixed North Starre.
- Some Merchants are fo farre wide from the knowledge of the yalue of coynes, and the Exchanges made thereupon, that they are of
opinion, Thatthere can beno certaine Rate or Par of Exchange ſet to
anſwerc iuſtly the value of the coynes of forraine parts, by reaſon of
the diuerfitic and diſproportion of the coynes of Gold and Siluer,
and their intrinſicall
and exrrinficall values. But theſe Merchantsare
to vnderſtand,that the moneys of all Countreys hauea proportionable valuation relatiue within themſelues, according to their ſeue-

rall ſtandards for weight and fineneſſe, onely the ſmallerarid baſer

coyne haue ſome little knowne aduantage,which may bee conſidered
of in Exchange, if there bee cauſe that the quantitie of thoſe moneys
ble valuation
doe exceed the bigger and finer coyne. This conſideration hath of
moneyes for
beene had heretofore, and eſpecially in the Par agreed vpon between x xchanges io

the Low-countreys and this Realme, in the yeare 1575, when ypon

be made ac-

the Philip Doller the Exchange was at twentie five ſhillings the Par, cordingly,
arid the {mall moneys would exceed twentie ſeuen ſhillings and vpwatds,but the quantitie did not ſurmount the better coyne. The like
was vpon the Paragreed vpon with the States of the vnited Prouinces, Ano 1586, at thirtie three ſhillings foure pencezand with Hamborough and Stoade,totwentie fqure ſhillings nine penee Lubiſh vpon the Rickes Doller of thirtie three ſhillings, or nine markes foure
ſhillings for our pound ſterlirig of twentie ſhillings, making foure
Dollers and one halfe to anſwere the ſaid Par, which Doller is inhan-

ced (ince to fiftie foure ſhillings, and wee receiue now but foure Dollers tor the ſame, and ſo for other places accordingly.
L1

CHAP,

Lex »Mercatoria.

TEL

?

4

T4

SOMOS ONO
CHAP.

OBO

4

III.

Of the Denomination of the Imaginarie Moneys of
all Places, whereupon Exchanges are
made by Bills.

".

92)

The price of
Gold nor ſo
_ all, as

priceof

Siuer.

HE Denomination of moneys, which wee call
Imaginarie, is becauſe there is not any peculiar
Ba Or proper money. to be found in _—_ , Where{4% vpon the Exchanges are grounded, as it was in
>
times paſt in many places, where ſome moneys

LB) were the cauſe to ground the price of Exchange

>L49WESy/>A ypon : as our Angell Noble, being coyned for
ſixe ſhillings and cight pence ſterling, whereupon Exchanges haue
beene made, as now is done vpon twentie ſhillings, and ſo might the
new peeces of our Soueraigne King James Laurcat,betaken, But it is
more proper to make Exchanges vpon the filuer coynes;for the price
of commodities is moſt ruled thereby in all places , which by the
quantitie is five hundreth to'one. Hence did proceed the cauſe that
when our Goldinthe yeare 161 1, wasaduanced ten in the hundreth
aboue the Siluer, the prices of commodities did not riſe, albeit-forraine Nations did cauſe the price of Exchange to fall. Burt if Siluer
were inhanced, preſently the price of commodities would follow as
the rule thereof, and the price of Exchange would fall more, for Exchange will ouerrule both.

In like manner do we call the moneys of other Countreys,wherevpon Exchanges are made to be Imaginaric,as the Dollersin Germanic, the Crownes in France, the Ducats in Italy and other places,
which by the great diuerſitic you may vnderſtand as followeth :
together with
The Calculations of Merchants Accounts , whereupon their Bookes of

Account are kept, according to their 1maginarie Moneys.

Pound Flemich.

]N Flanders, Brabant, and moſt places of the Low-countreys, oy
keepe their Bookes of Account and Reckonings by twentie ſhil-

lings Flemiſh, eueric ſhilling twelue deniers or pence, which ſhilling
is ſix ſtyuers.

In

——

Lex «Mercatoria.

387

TI—

In Artois,Henalt,
and other places by pounds tournois of twentie Pound Tour:
ſtiuers,or fortie pence Flemiſh,wherof ſix called guildren or florins, ***
make the pound Flemiſh in all the ſeuenteene prouinces of the Ne—=—
konbby pounds ds Parafis,
which are arebbut twentie pence, ,,
Some do reckon
Parafis, which
whereof twelue —_—_vo pound Flemiſh : but their accounts (as al- ne"
ſo the reckonings of their Prince,or Finances) are kept by pounds
Tournois,which pound they diuide into twentie ſhillings,cuery ſhil-

ling intotwelue

pence ;and thelike is doneby the pound Parafis,and

theſe haue alſo their ſubdiuiftons of Obulus, Maille, Heller, Hallinck,
Corte,Mites,Point engeuin, Poot, and ſuch like copper moneys, too

tedious to rehearſe.

In Germanie, in the yeare x 520, was the gold guilder coyned for Gold guilder.

a generall coyne, and valued in Holland for twentie cight ſtiuers,
which isnow in ſpecte at double the price , neuertheleſſe they do continue to buy and ſel all that greatquantitie of corne which is brought
from the Eaſt countries , Poland, and other places, by the ſaid gold
guilder of twentie cight ſtiuers. Their doller was coyned at ftxtie
fiue Creutzers, fince riſen to ſeuentie two Creutzers , yet their Ex- Creurzers.
change is made vpon the doller of fixtie fiue Creutzers, which is
imaginarie.
|
Ar Auguſta the Exchange is made vpon the faiddoller of ixtie
fiue Creutzers,at three weeks,or fouretecne daies ſight after the bill
preſented.

At Frankford they reckon by the guilder of fixtie Creutzers, cal- Florins of 66

led in Latine Cracigeri, being peeces with a Crofle, they are Florins, ©

and their Exchange is made vpon the doller of fixtie fiue Creutzers,
payable in the two yearely Faires or Marts ; the one the weeke be-

fore Eaſter, andthe other in the beginning of September to conti-

nue forall the moneth.

At Norenborough their Exchangeis made vpon the ſaid doller of

A

ſixtic flue Creutzers,and many times vpon the Florin of fixtie Creutzers, which they alſo diuide intotwentie ſhillings, and cuerie ſhilling twelue pence,to keepe their accounts by.
For Bohemia,Exchanges are made vpon the doller of twentie and gghemicos:
foure Bohemicos.
|
At Vienna they reckon by guilders or florins of eight ſhillings,of
thirtie pence to the ſhilling,& two Hellerto the penie,and Exchange
iS made thereupon,
|

Ar Bauieraby guilders of ſeuen ſhillings, of thirtie pence,for Ex- p;ue.s qui.

changesand Accounts.
ders.
In Hungarie by guilders of ten ſhillings, of thirtie pence, and by
florins of twentie ſhillings, and twelue pence to the ſhilling,and Exchanges are made vypon their ducar..
Ar Breſlo and Leypſich they reckon by markes of thirtie and Makesst 32

two grofles, of tweluehellerto the groſſe, and they Exchangeby groves,

thirtie florins Breſlowes, to haue at m—_ thirtie and fourc florins,
LI 2
or

——_ A

288
IS

Poundz of 20

Lex Mercatoria,
|
oro rerrnnnrei
CCCCCCCCCCCCECNcecroewUW ———

ens

Rne————_—

—

=

or at Norcnborough thirtic and two florins.

Ar Vime they reckon by pounds of rwentie ſhillings, and twelue

Mm ®13 hellerro the ſhilling, and their Exchange is is made vpon the doller
of fixtie creutzers.

At Colloigne by dollers of ſeuentic twocreutzers, for Accounts

Pound ſterling

|

and Exchanges.

At Embden hey reckon by guilders,and Exchange vpon the rickx

doller; but from London thither and hither vpon the pound ſterling

of twentie ſhillings.

Markes of 1x
At Hamborough they account by markes of fixteene ſhillings
billing.
lubiſh, of twclue pence tothe ſhilling ; Exchanges for London vp-

on twentie ſhillings ſterling, and for other places vpon the rickx doller before mentioned of thirtie and three ſhillings, now by them
inhaunced to fiftic and foure ſhillings lubiſh, or ſo many ftiuers
Flemiſh.
In Pomerania they reckon by markes of fixteen ſhillings ſnudens,
and the Exchange is vponthe rickx doller of thirtie and twofſhillings
of two-ſnudens.

In !

Fight markes
In Sweden they reckon by markes,whereof eight makeadoller,
aoller.
whereupon they Exchange, and two markes make a Clipping of 9 |
ſtiuers.
In Denmarke vpon markes of ſixtecne ſhillings ;Exchange vpon
the doller.
|

Polih gailders

In Danſicke they keepe their account in Poliſh guilders of thirtie

9: zogrofles. profſes, cueric guilder of cighteene pence-roa groſle . They buy
with the great marke of ſixtic groſles,or the liethe marke of fifteene
groffe,alſoby Scoc of three great markes, andthey Exchangeypon
the florin Poliſh, or vpon the pound Flemiſh, payable at foureteene
daics,and alſoone moneth.

Florins Polida At Riga they buy by dollers or florins Poliſh of cighreene farof 18farthings things, whereof the eleven make ten dollers : but their Exchanges is
made ypon the rickx doller.
The accounts in Barbarieare kept, and commodities are fold by a
ducat of ten ounces to the ducat,and 8 eights ro the ounce, valued
at twelue pence ſterling.
Florinsor,s
In Polandtheiraccountsare made by markes, and the Exchan
ſhillings, * Vpon the doller, and alſo-vponthe florinof fortie andeight ſhillings,
the marke being ; part of it.
|
In Ruſſia they haue ſmall coynes of eleuen ounces fifreene pennie
weight fine, called Dengen, whereof three hundreth and ewentie
peeces weigh but a marke of eight ounces. They Exchange vpon
the doller of Germanie : but for London vpon their roble,which is
Robleor mark double ducat,accounted to be a marke ſterling,or thirteene ſhillings
Duca D3 ca.
mera.

fourc pence.

AtRomethey keepe their accounts by ducats Di Camera of thir-

teene Julie cucrie ducat,which. they diuide-in twentie ſhillings, and

cuery ſhilling 12 pence. Their Exchange is alſo made ypon _ ſaid
ucat

Lex Mercatorta.
«
ducat de Camera, which for Lyons arc made payable in markes D'or,
or of gold, ſocallcd,but arc imaginarie.

W-:

Ar Millaine,they keepe their Accounts by ducat imperial, diuided Narimpe
by twentie ſhillings and twelue pence, and their Exchanges are made
alſo vpon the ſaid ducat,accounting eightie ſhillings to the ducat im-

pcriall.But all their buyings are made by a ducat currant of one hundreth and twentie ſhillings.

At Venice they account by pounds Flemiſh, of tenne ducats of DucardiBanss

twentic and foure groſſe, whichthey diuide in twentie ſhillings and
twelue pence, alſo by the ducat of one hundreth twentic and foure
ſhillings, called Ducato dj Banco, or currant, and thereupon Exchanges are made.
\
At Florence they account by crownes of twentie ſhillings, and Ducar Largo,
rwelue pence to the ſhilling,or by aducat called Largo, ur /cripto in ———

banco for Exchanges.Florin is twentieand foure Quatrinij.

Ar Genoazall Accounts and Exchanges are made by crowns of fix- Crowves of

tie ſhillings,diuided by twentie ſhillings and twelue pence ; and here © ®Lags
are aboue fifteene Bankes or Exchangers.
Y
Ar Verona the Exchange is made ypon the Ducat of ninetiethree Ducar of
ſhillings, and they make their accounts by twentie ſhillings, and 93 filings:
twelue penceto the ſhilling.
|
At Luca Exchanges are made for diuers places in Italiez and for
Lyons vpon the ducat.
Ar Naples, they account by ducats, taries, and graines, the ducat Ducarof ten
ten carlini, tarie is two carlinior two royalls, and Exchanges are <*\*:
made hereupon for the moſt places of Iralie, But for Lyons, they
Exchange by number, as one hundreth twentie and five ducats for

one hundreth crownes,

|

In Calabria, Puglia,Exchanges are made vpon the ſaid ducat of

ten carlini.

|

At Ancona exchange is made vpon the ducat of twentie and one Pucaref ar
groſſe,which is i» pecie rwentie and three groſſe,and isalſo fourcteen © ©

carlini, of ſix Bollidini for a carline.

|

At Bolognia they account by Piaſtra or pound of twentie Bolog- Fiaftraor ©**
neft:the Exchange is vpon the ducat of foure Piaſtri.
ou
At Palermoin Siſilia the ducat is thirteene taric, of two carlini
the tarie,
|
The five royals of Spaine are fixe tarie, they account by ounces: pucar
ofthir?

of thirtie tarie to twentie graines , cuerie taric and euerie graine tenctaric. =
of {1xe-piccolie,
and their Exchanges are made ypon florines of ſix
tar!).

|

Ar Lyons in Fraunce, all their accounts by an edi& made in the'

yeare 1577are tobe keptinn French crownes of ſixtie ſoulz,or three. - SD
Crownesof

pounds tournoys, and their Exchanges are made thereupon, vnleſle z,change.
it be for ſome places in Italie , where they exchange fornumber,to
haue ſomany ducats for ſo many crowns of the ſumme;,byrt notisſpe=
cie,vyhichis altogether imaginarie,
yer reſpeQing value or Pax,” '

L3

At

=

390

Lex Mercatoria.
+

Ma

' AtParis,Roan, &c. their Accounts and Exctringes vpon the ſaid
crowne.
Ducarof 3757
Tn Spainc,at Seuill, Madrill,and other places,their accounts are all
6
kept by Maluedies,wherof three hundred ſeuentie and fue are eſteemed to make a ducat of exchange of eleven ryalls, eucrie ryall is
thirtie and foure Maluedies , and ſo maketh but three hundreth ſe-

uentie and foure.Otkers keepe their accounts by ryalls of thirtie and
foure Maluedyes in ryalls,as our Englifh Merchants do, and their Ex.
changes are made vpon this imaginarie ducat of three hundreth ſe.

uentie and five Malucdies , to be payed in Banke, with fiue vpon the
thouſand,which is the ſallarie of the Bankerz or without the banke
DecardePeſs

or Dm.

Ducar ofrz

Royalis

tobe payed without the ſame.

In Caſtile,their Exchanges are alſo made vpon the ducatof three

hundreth ſeuentieand fiue Maluedies, which they call in the Bill of
Exchange Dacades d'oro,or de peſo,to be paicd out of the banke, is better by {1x or eight pro milliar.
In thekingdome of Arragon, Barſelona, Valenſia, Saragoſſa, and

Catalonia, the royall of plate is twentie andrhree dineros, and the
ducat istwelue ryalls, whereupon they make their Exchanges : and
their accounts are by twentie ſhillings and twelue pence tor cucry
ducat of twelue royalls,as aforeſaid.
Ducator Cru Ax Lixborne they keepe their accounts by Mill Reas, whereof

aot400 133. foure hundreth Reas make a ducat, alias Cruſado. Mill Reas istwen-

tie andtworoyalls of ten reftons, cucrie teſton is one hundreth reas.
There is alſo teſtons of foure vintains, the royall is two vintains,and
the Exchange is made vpon the ducar of foure hundreth &c.
Sulraneesof - In Turkie at Aleppo, Tripoli,and Conſtantinople, by Sultanees of
120apers: one hundreth and twentie aſpers, or dollers of cightic aſpers,cucrie
aſper isten Macharines.
At Alexandria in Zgypt, they account by ducats. There is ducat
Pucatde ' de Pargo making three ducars of Venice, alſo Italian ducats of thir<=:

the 4 fiue maids, and the Venice ducat is better,and maketh fortic

maids.

Marke Scots. ..At Edenborough in Scotland , Exchanges are made vpon the

marke peece of filuer,which is valued in England at 1 3 ; pennie, being otherwiſe x 3 + pennie,or thirteenc ſhillings foure pence Scots:
So one marke and a halfe Scots is twentie ſhillings Scors,and twentie
Pound Scors, .pence ſterling is one pound Scottiſh , which is twelue to one . The
18 pceces of twentie ſhillings, is by the ſaid Valuation twentie ſhillings three pence : and the Taker vp of the money at London,payeth
for twelue pence the ſaid marke of 1 z 7 pence, at two or three moneths Time in Scotland, as they can agree.
Pound Iriſh.
At Dublin in Ireland the fifteene ſhillings ſterling, is one pound
Iriſh of twentie ſhillings ; whereupon Exchanges arc made, with allowance of fixe pence or eight pence ypon euerie pound payable
at London : and for want ofa Mint no Bullion is imported thithcr,
and Exchanges are diuerted into other parts.
At

_—_—

Lex Mercatoria.
Ar London all Exchanges are made vpon the pound ſterling of Pound flerlnS

twentic ſhillings, and twelue pence to the ſhilling, for Germanic, the
Low-countreys, and other places of trafficke : and for France vpon the French Crowne : for Italy , and Spaine, and other places

ypon the Ducat, or forthe Doller and Florin in ſome places, according to the Cuſtome of theplace . Whereof more particularly is ro

be obſerued inthe courſe of Exchanges.

NY

CRY CRY CY

EN

26

RG 36 7 FIR
CHare.,

IIIL

Of the Times of Payment of Moneys by Exchange,
and the Termes of Art Toſed therein.

eZ HE diſcrepance of Time for thepayment of moy neysby Exchange, hatha

regard to the diſtance

as Of the place or places where the money is to bee

"4

payed: wherein we may conſider three kindes of
@F diucrſities, called by the Termes of Art in mat5@) tcr of Exchange ; at Sight, Vſance, and double
? Vſance,or treble.

The raking and deliuering money at Sight, bindeth the Taker vp arsighr;

of the moneys togiue his Bill of Exchange, direted vpon his friend

FaQor or Seruant in any place beyondthe Seas, to pay vpon Sight of

it,or within three,foure, or more dayes,ſo much money as hath been

taken vp by him afterſuch arate the Pound,Doller,Ducat or Crown,

as is agreed vpon betweene them in forraine coyne, citheraccordin
to the Valuation of monies, or currant money for merchan diſe;which
is more ordinarie, becauſe Merchants will admit ſometimes to re-

are valued, ypon occaſiceiue ſome.coynes ata higher rate than they
on that ſome Species are required for tranſportation ;-or ſome other
vie to make paiments; whichtolleration is by authoritie many times CO of
ſuffered to draw moneys vnto their places of juriſdition. Heerein is
to benoted, Thar if the Bill be made payable at ſo many dayes Sighr,
that the number of dayes muſt bee expreſſed in the Bill or Bills , for
commonly there are made three Bills of one Tenor foreueric ſumme
of _ taken vp, becauſe if one Bill bee loſt, the other may ſerue
in place.
The ſecond Time of payment called Vſance, which iseither the ArVſance.

Time of one moneth,two or three moneths after the date of the Bill

of

392

Lex Mercatoria.
——S

of Exchange, as heercafter isdeclared, according to the Cuſtome of
the places where theſe Exchanges doe runne: according to which
Time the partic ( ypon whom the Bill of Exchange is directed) is to
Double V-

pay the ſame, vnlefſe there be good cauſe tothe contrarie,as ſhall ap.
peare hereafter.
The third Time of paiment,

called double Vſance, is either two ?

ens ir or more moneths, or alwayes double the Time of the Vſance,reſpec-

*

ting by Cuſtomethe courſe thereof : and many times Exchanges are
made vpon the halfe Vſance, which is fifteene dayes . But conſide.
ring the wind and other hinderances, it is better to limit the dayes
after Sighrin the Bill of Exchange, and to ſend the ſame by Sea and
Land with a Letter of Advice, which the Taker of money commonly dothdeliucr with the Bill of Exchange, whereunto the Bill maketh alſo relation, and treble Vance is accordingly.
(TY
Paymentsin
There isanother Time forthe paiment of Exchanges,where great

Mas *

paymentsaremade, as in Faires or Marts, as at Madrill and Medina

del Campo, by three Ferias in the yeare ; at Lyons by fourc pay ments
yearely, andat Frankford twice euerie yeare,&c.
The difference of the times of payment, doe alter the price of
Exchanges according tothe Time, commonly after twelue, fifteene,
or twentic inthe hundreth by the yeare: So betweene the pound ſterling Exchanged for the Low-countries at Sight and Vſance, is betweene foure and fiue pence, and double Vſance and Vance, fixe or
feuen pence, which ordinarily was-accounted to bee but foure pence
after xo pro 100, But for the Faires and Marrs it is verie vncertaine,
becauſe the paymentsare all at one Time, and rhe neerer the Faires

Conſideration are at hand, the more ſhall the Taker vp of the money laue by paying

in Exchanges. [eſſe intereſt, becauſe he hath not had the vſe of the money trom the
beginnigg that Exchanges were made for the Faircs , which in que-

ſtionable matters is verie conſiderable.
Vſance from Lofidon toand from Middleborough, Amſterdam,
Antuerpe, =. and other places in the Low-countreys, is one
moneths Time from the date of the Bill of Exchange ; and double
Vſance is two moneths.
|
Vſance for Hamborough is two moneths, and for Venice three
moneths.
rib ag, 250
;
e
y
|

Vſance from Antuerpto Rome, istwo monieths , and from Lyons

toRomeonemoneth.
|
_ » Vſancefrom Antuerpto Venice is two moneths, to bee payed in
Banke.
+
|
|
. VſanceatFlorence istwo moneths, and from Florence to London
three moneths.
Vſance from GenoatoRome and Naples, is ten dayes Sight; and
for Palermo and Antuerpis two moneths by ordinarie obſcruation,
and ſo is Luca:
|
From Naples to Antuerp is two' monethes ; and the like for

Palermo,

|

Viance

Lex Mercatoria.
Vſance for Roan and Paris is onemoneth , but commonly atthree
weekes Sight.
From Antuerp and London to Seuill is two moneths. *
Caſtile paymentsare in three Bankes, and Ferias de Fillalon, Medina
del Campo and Medina del Rio Sicco, but many times prolonged by the
King of Spaine.
Vſance from Lixborne to London and Antuerp is two moneths,
which Merchants are to know , becauſe the Bills of Exchanges doe
not declare the ſame.

|

A&

$a

I IE

We $32 do

k

-

Pe Be Pe
CHAP,

V..

Of the Nature of Bills of Exchanges.

of a Bill of Exchange from London to Amſterdam, and from Amſterdam to London againe, w#s.
Lau Deo,
Adi 20 Auguſt 1622,in London—5 008, 34

6d.

AZ Pſance pay by this my firſt Bill of Exchange onto A. B. theſumme
of

fine hundreth pounds ſterling, at thirtie fore ſhillings and fixe pence Flemiſh, for exerie pound ſterling Currant money in merchandiſe, for the value
hereof receined by me of C.D.and put it to account,as per aduice,ADio,&c.
G.M.
On the Backefide is endorſed : To my lowing friend, Maſter W.C.
Merchant at Amierdam, P*.

This isthe forme of a Bill of Exchange for moneys delivered and
taken vpat London for Amſterdam : the ſecond Bill doth differ in
the addition of theſe words onely , At Venice not hauing payed by
_

——

—O—

—
—

——

_

Lex» Mercatoria,
_

Et

En

Ir

ne ee

my firſt Bill, pay by this m yſecond Bill, and ſointhe third Bill: For
—

———_——————_——_

—

—

—

there are commonly three Bils made;as aforeſaid.

|

Laus Deo, Adj 20 of September 1622 in Amſter-

dam———1o0 ®at 33/5 64.

T FYſance pay this my firſt Bill of Exchange onto W . M. theſumme of

one bundreth pounds lawfall money of England ;for the value here by me
receined of D. H. make him good payment and put it to your account ; God

keepe you.

"

Subſcribed.

W.C.

On the Backeſide is endorſed : To my lowing friend » Maſter G.M.
Merchant at London, P*.

x Thisistheforme of a Bill of Exchange for moneys, taken yp
at Amſterdam to bepayed in London, wherein the Time of payment
may bee made at Sight, or ſo many dayes after Sight,or at double
Vſance,according to the agreement:or the Bill may bee directed to
my ſeruant, or to himſelfe or any other : or it may ſay , Put it to the
account of ſuch a man. Burt the beſt is to referre it to the Letter of
Aduice,and where the firſt Bill is noted P®.the ſecond muſt be 2*.and
the third 3*.

You maynot ſay inthe Bill, It may pleaſe you to pay , or I pray

you toOpay( although it were to your Maſter , ) for the Bill ( of his

high Nature) doth carrie with ita Command without reſpe& of perſons, and moſt men will not vſe the words (Make himgood Payment )
but the fewer words the more formall ; neither is there any witneſle
vnto it, nor any ſcale, but a ſmall peece of paper of ſome two fingers

broad : and the Letter of Aduice doth declare for whoſe account, or

to what intent or purpoſe the ſaid money is taken vp ; which Letter
of Aduice, doth accompanie the Bll of Exchange with the like in{cription, with the words De adwiſo.
|
Alſo for moneys here deliuered ( where the ground of Exchange
is of the twentic ſhillings whereupon the Exchange is made)you may
not expreſſe what the ſterling money maketh in Flemiſh money;not
{o much forthat by miſcaſting you might make your ſelfe lyable, as
forthat it is not mannerly to caſt vp another mans account : neither
may you makea Bill of Exchange payable to the bearer or bringer
thereof ( as you make your Bills Obligatorie beyond the Seas) to
auoid the inconuenience which might happen in derogation of the
nobleneſle of rhe ſaid Bill of Exchange, which euerie Merchant is to

maintaine . All other Billes of Exchanges for Germanic , Spaine,
Traly, France, the Low-countreys, Portugall, or any other places berweenethem,toand from place to place, doe not differ in the forme,
but in the manner of the moneys to be payed in Banke, or out of the
Banke,or in ſuch a Faire or Mart, at ſuch times and in ſuch moneys
according tothe Countreys.
R
2 The

O

——
=

ee

——_—

=

ns
es es

Lex Mercatoria.
-—

395

—

2 The Bankers and diuers Italians haue a cuſtome, that for the mo-

Rare cuſtomes

in Bills of Ex-

neys taken by them,or for their companie,or any other,one of their changes.

ſeruants doth make the Bills of Exchange, and he ſubſcribeth the
name of him,or of the Companie for whom it was taken vp : and the
maſter he doth write vnder the ſaid Bill Pagate come fi dice, that is to

ſay,Pay as it is ſaid ;and this goeth as currant amongſt Merchants as
. any other Bill made by the parties owne hand, andall proceedings
thereupon aredone accordingly.
They hauealſoan ordinarie cuſtome to transferre and put ouer
their Bills of Exchanges before they are made, vnto any other perſon, as for example.
Onein Antuerpe doth deliuer by Exchange fiue hundreth pounds
ſterling, tobe paied here in London vntoanother Merchant there,
who is to make him a Bill of Exchange for the ſame: afterwards
within two or three daies this deliuerer of money hath occaſi-

on to take vp fiue hundreth pounds for London, and hauing taken
the ſame of another Merchant, he is romake himalſoa Bill of Exchange for this money , as the other Merchant was to make him for

the fiue hundreth pounds which he did deliuer him by Exchangefor

London,as aforeſaid. Hereupon he knowing the name of the partie in
London to whom the other mans money was tobe made payable,
cauſed the Bill of Exchange tobe madepayablero the ſaid partie,as

he ſhould haue done with his owne proper Bill of Exchange, and
whereas the value ſhould be mentioned to be receiued of the ſecond
man, that did deliuer him the money, he cauſcth both of them to be

named in the Bill,and ſometimes three or fourearenamed in the ſaid

Bill(if itbe ſooften rechanged) by ſaying, For the value receiued of
ſuch a man for ſuch a man and ſucha man,vpon the account of ſuch a
man. This is goodat all aſſsies,for the reuerence which is borne to
Bills of Exchanges, and by theſe meanes there is charges and fatoridge ſaued between the parties : beſides the commodiouſneſſe, that
one man doth writ and ſend this Bill of Exchange for all thoſe that
did change and rechange there the ſaid money, which is nor done all
in one ſumme, and with one Bill of Exchange ; burthe ſumme ma
be made vp by many Bills of Exchange payable all to that man, alrhough it be by diuers perſons : ſuch and the like courſes are dayly
vied and praQtiſed beyond the ſeas without interruption in matter of
Exchange, which may ſeeme to be intricate.
|
This courſe of dealing is altogether ſtrange to the common laws
of England,and cannot be dererminedthereby. For whereas ( with
the aduice of Merchants)ſome matters vpon Bills of Exchanges haue
beene tried vpon an Aion of Aſſumpſit, here is neither confideration nor Aſſumpſit to be proued, vnleſle the Bill had beene accepted,
whercin are many obſeruations;
To make this more apparanttherefore, let vs illuſtrate this by example. Peter deliuererh fiue hundreth pounds to John, who is to giue
the Bill of Exchange for it ; Peter taketh vp fiue hundreth pounds of
William

Lex Mercatoris.
William, and may giue him the ſaid Bill of Joby for it ; William taketh

vp five hundreth pounds of Nicholas,and may deliuer John and Peters

Bill for it ; Nicholas taketh yp five hundreth pounds of Francs,& doth
give him the Bill of 7ohn,making mention of Peter and William. Here
are foure takers vp of money, and bur effeually one deliuerer of
money,which is Francs: for albcit that Peter was the firſt deliverer
of the fiue hundreth pounds, he becamea taker againe of the ſaid
money, recciuing the ſame of William; ſothat gradatim, Jobnis the
firſt taker vp of the ſaid fiue hundreth pounds, Peter is the ſecond
taker vp, William is the third taker vp, and Ntchol4 is the fourth takervp of the ſaid five hundreth pounds of Francs. To this Fraxcis
isthe Bill of Exchange giuen,payable to his friend, fator, or ſeruant
in the place for which the money was taken vp . But the faid Bill

is made by 7ohn the firſt taker vp of the ſaid money, declaring that
the value of it was receiued of Peter for Williamand for Nicholas vpon the account of Francis, whichis the laſt delivererof the money:

which Bill being payed,all the parties in this Exchange are ſatisfied

and paied ;andthisis done with great facilitic.

4 There isalſo a cuſtome, that moneys are taken by Exchange

for a certaine place, by men who are.not generally knowne, and
therefore muſt vſe the credit of another man,asa third perſon ig the
Exchange. If this man do ſubſcribe his name to the third or ſecond

Bill of Exchange, it is ſufficient, and will be duely performed ac-

cordingly.

|

|

5 Itisalſfo ordinarie, that a maſter to draw money from his ſeruant into his owne hands, ora merchant in the like caſe from his fa-

or,will makea Bill of Exchange payable to ſome other perſon,and
ſay inthe Bill of Exchange,
For the valuereceiued of ſuch a one, naming afriend of his,as he taketh the faid perſon to be , if the ſeruant
or fator do accept this Bill, he will be made to pay it; and if this
perſon whoſe name hath beene vſed will deale vniuſtly , the ma-

{ter or merchant ſhall be remedileſſe, vnleſſe he haue ſome colla-

terall writing tor the ſame , becauſe the Billof Exchange muſt be
maintained.
6 Againe if a knowne ſeruant do take vp moneys beyond the
ſeas, vpon hismaſter, and giuehis Bill of Exchange forit vpon the
ſaid maſter, the maſter is liable topay the ſame,although he did not
accept the Bill of Exchange ; for itis vnderſtood, that by his credit
(and not by the ſeruants credit) the money hath beenetaken vp;fo
that vntill he make a publicke declaration, denouncing his ſeruant to
the Brokers of Exchanges and otherwiſe, the maſter is to pay all by
the Cuſtome of Merchants tobe kept inniolable.
7 Thereisalſoa cuſtome, that a maſter vnto his ſeruant , or one
friendynto another, will ſend Bills of Exchanges, with the names
in blanke, from one countrie intoanother, as from Hamborough to

Embden, or from Antuerpe to Amſterdam, and from'thence to

Danſficke: and at Amſterdam the names are putin to whom to =
;
paicd,

Lex Mercatoria.
-

payed, and of whom receiued ; and this dependeth vpon thecredit of him that madethe Bill of Exchange,and this is alſoaccompliſhed veric orderly.
8 Againe a Merchant may take by Exchange (in another mans
name, or in his owne nameand another mans name together) money
to be paicd inany place where Exchangeis vied , and ſubſcribe his
name, and that mans name, or that mans name alone : and this man
(whole name is vſed) is liable and anſwerable to the ſaid Exchange,
if it beproucd that it was done, or the like vied to be done by thar
other partie with his conſent orpriuitie, for toauoid inconueniences
inthe courſe of Exchanges.

9 Nay this goeth yer further to be conſidered of in equitic and ſo

ene if a man dotake vp money forany place by Exchange
poſits, from London to Middleborough,and there the moneyis payed,
and takenvp againe by Exchange for Antuerpe, andthere it is alſo
paied by money taken vp for Amſterdam,and at Amſterdam it is paied,for the ſaid money was taken vpthere againe for Middlebdrough,
and at Middleborough it was againe returned and takenvpfor London in one or more ſummes running in accountbetweene all theſe
parties dealing therein ; but here at Londonit is not ipaied,but goeth
backeagaine to Middleborough by Proteſt , and there the taker vp
of it becommeth inſoluent. Now if it beproued that thoſe moneys
were originally taken vp in London by the credit of thar firſt taker,
which hath beene a principall cauſe of the continuance of it by
Exchange, this man of London is:to be charged with it as:
well as the taker vp of the moneys beyond the ſeas.
Thus may we ſee how tenderand noble aBill of
Exchange is of nature,which by the proceeding thereupon will be made
moreapparant,
».x)

|

Of the Non-accepration of Bills of Exchanges,and Cuſtomes
obſerued concerning the ſame.

EMHis high nature of a Bill of Exchange,requireth ſuch

871 preciſcneſſe of proceedings to ſee the performance
| thereof, that cueric man ought to be verie vigilant to
& obſcrue the ſame : and therefore as ſoone as a MerBy chant recciueth a Bill of Exchange,whether it be pay= ableat Sight, Vſance, or double Vſance, he is to preſentthe ſaid Bill of Exchangetothe partie vpon whom ir is directed,
toknow whether he will accept the ſame, whichif hedo,or promiſe

Firſt obſerua- (by writingvnder it'the word Accepted, or with the addition of his

_

name,Acceptedby
me A. B.) then the partie is to pay it at the time
contained:in the Bill {bur if the ſaid partie be not reſolued to accept
the ſame, then aftertwentic and fourehoures paſt,it is conuenient to

preſent him the faid Bill wich a Notarie to make intimation of it

vntohim, and toknow whether he will accept che ſame, as you did
before : ifhe denie to accept it,then the Notarie doth Proteſt againſt

him in words, that the Merchant doth intend to recoueral! damma-

ges which he,or the deliuerer of the money beyond the ſeas,or himſelfe for others might orſhall ſuſtaine thereby, whereuntothe partie
needeth not to makeany replie : but if he doe, and withall defire the
Notarie to declare the ſame in the Notariall Act or Proteſt whichhe
maketh for the Non-acceptation, then the Notarie is to put it down
in writing accordingly , and to deliuer the ſame to the Merchant to
be ſent beyond the ſeas with all expedition, becauſe the deliuerer of
the money there may take notice of it, and ſecure himſelfe of the
partie,if therebe cauſe, and in the ſending of this Proteſt ogntimation. The opportunitie of the firſt Poſt is to be obſerued to ſend the
ſame by.
Second obſer=
If the Merchant tro whom the Bill is payable were abſent,
or
BAYON.
ſicke, or departed this life ;neuertheleſſeany friend or ſcruant of
his may cauſe this Proteſt to be made by the Notarie, who doth
declare the name of him at whoſe requeſt he doth preſent the ſaid

Bill of Exchange,

It

Lex Mercatoria.
+
If the partie vnto whom the Bill of Exchange isdireted bee Thirdobſeruas
10N.
abſent or will not be found, the Notarie may proceed neverthelefle,
and goe to his lodging or dwelling houſe, and leaue afterwardes the
copie'
of the Proteſt with ſome of the honſe, or throw tle ſame
within doores, and keepe a note of it againſt the next time... Bur
theſe Proteſts muſt be made at conuentent houres , neither too early

in the morning or too late in the euening, neither vpon- Sabbath .
dayes'or Holy dayes, but (as it were) Sedente Curia, when any
Courts of Iuſtice bee open.
Before the time of the payment of the ſaid Bill, the partie may

Fourth obſcr-!
uation,

notwithſtanding accept the ſaid Bill and pay it at the time ; or another man may accept the Bill for the Honor of it, if you take that
other man to be ſufficient ; wherein the danger is nothing, for all
others remaine ſtill anfwerable, and you haue oneman more bound
by the ſaid hisacceptation : which hec doth in theſe words, CAceepted by mee A,B. for the Honor ofthe Bill,
' If this man at the time, doth pay the ſaid Bill of Exchange, be- Filth obſerya-

cauſe the partie vpon whom it was directed doth not , yet hee is to tion.
make firſt before hee doe pay the ſame a Proteſt , witha declaration

that hee hath payed the ſame for the Honor of the Billof Exchange,
whereby toreceiue the money againe of him that had made the Bill
of Exchange.
If a Bill of Exchange be accepted, and neuertheleſſe not payed,or Sixth obſcrum
that it be not accepted, as aforeſaid , and remaineth vnpayed : then tion.
muſt you cauſe the Notarie to make a ſecond Proteſt for the non
payment of it, and therein declare that you pretend to recouer all
damages, charges, and intereſts againſt the maker of the Bill, orany
other intcreſt inthe ſaid Exchange and Rechange, which muſt be declared in the faid Proteſt by a ſworne Broker of Exchanges, who giueth notice of the price of Exchange to the Notarie; and if there be
cauſe or hope of payment, you may keepe this Proteſt twoor three

dayes in your hands without danger, orelſe ſend it away to bee recouered beyond the Seas of him that made the Bill of Exchange and

tooke yp the money there.

- Bur if this Bill were accepted here, then is it lawfullrodemaund Scventhobſers
uation,

payment of it by Law or otherwiſe, both here and beyond the Seas

at your pleaſure vnrill the Bill be ſatisfied ; neither may the partie
that made the Bill leaue it vnpaid ( without diſcredit) vntill hce
that hath accepted the ſame doe pay it or bee compelled thereunto
by Law; for there muſt bee plaine and honeſt dealing in it both
wayes : and if the partie that did accept the Bill, doe afterwardes

breake before the time of payment, the giuer of the Bill, orany

_

whoſe credit hath beene vſed therein are ſtill anſ{werable

for all.
There muſt be great regard had of the Letterof Aduice,

and the Eighth cbſer-

Bill of Exchange, and for what account the ſame is to bee payed be
fore you accept the ſame: For if a Bll ſhall ſay, Put it tothe acM m 3

count,

4.00

"3,

Lex +Mercatoris.
——————

count of ſuch a man, and the Letter of Aduice ypon ſome occaſion ſhall alrer the ſame ; you cannot ſafely pay this Bill of Exchange, but muſt declare the ſame by way of Proteſts, otherwiſe

the Bill of Exchange may bee conſtrued againſt you, if there bee
differences in account, whereupon the matter may come in{que-

ſtion.

Ninhobſer= © Againe, if a mandoe accept a Bill of Exchange within himſelfe,
as being made -payable to himſelfe, and hee doth it vpon ano;
ther ( than cither the Bill of Exchange or the Letter of Aduice
_ doth ſignifie ) hee muſt alſo make a Proteſt declaring the (ame,
or hee ſhall pay it in his owne wrong by the Cuſtome of Mer-

chants.
Temhobſer- Tf a man doe
I
to one that doth

pay a Bill of Exchange before it bee due , vnbreake afterwardes, hee ſhall bee compelled to

pay the ſame againe vnto the deliuerer of the money, in whoſe

power it is to diuert the payment, 'or to cauſe the Bill to beealtered and made payable to another during all the time of the payment.
Elevemhob- | Tf a Bill of Exchange be intercepted by any meanes, and taken
leruatio.
from the Poſt that ſhould haue brought the ſame , andthe partie to
whom the Bill is payable hauingaduice of ir by other Letters, doth

come to him ypon whom the ſaid Bill was directed, and defirerh his
promiſe of acceptation, without that the Bill is ſhewed him, and af-

terwards doth pay him the ſameaccordingly,withour taking any Bill
of Exchange forit ; this payment is not good nor lawfull by the
Cuſtome of Merchants, and the deliuerer of the money beyond the
Seas will recouer it of youagaine.
Twelfth obſer- - If Proteſt of non payment be made of a Bill of Exchange, which
|
hath beene ſet ouer or transferred to many perſons, as in the caſe before declared, where Francis was the laſt deliverer : then all the parties interreſſed in that Exchange are anſwerable for it, infomuch that
0
Peter who was the firſt deliuerer of the money, and afterwardes becamea taker, doth beare aduenture of all vntill the Bill bee payed,
and ſo doe all the other takersnamed in the Bill. As for example,
Francs the partie who tooke this Bill , as being deliuerer of it at laſt
muſt goe a retrograde courſe heerein , if /ohn who made the Bill
and was the firſt taker vp doe not pay the ſame : Francs then
ſeeketh Nicholas, Nicholas ſceketh William, William ſecketh Peter, and

Peter ſeeketh John, the firſt taker of the money of him . Suppoſe
Tohn is broken, then hee goeth to Peter, If Peter broken , then
to William , if William broken, then to Nicholas , if Nicholas broken,

then all is loſt. Sothat all of them are anſwerable to this Bill, as
aboueſaid.

Theſe twelue obſcruations, are to be kept and maintained by the
Cuſtome of Merchants, concerning Bills of Exchanges, as carefully

and ſeriouſly as the Romances did their Law of twelue Tablcs lo

much celebrated by them. «8

T

ere

—_—.

Lex «AMercatoria,
- There happened of late acaſeworthy the confideration for-matter of Exchange:
A Merchant of Antucrp being indebted'vntoanother Merchant there, did deliuer ſeuerall-Bills of Exchanges for the were accepred-

ſammeof 800 @ ypon a Merchant in London:, whodid acceprtall

the ſaid Bils of Exchanges,which were payable art Vſance and double
Vſance ; after this the Merchant that gaue the ſaid Bills in Antuerp
tothe other Merchant,did breake-: heereupon the MerchantatLondon repenting himſelfe to haue accepred theſaid Bills ) maketh Inrimation by a Notarietothe parties ro whom the Bills were pajable,
that hee did not intend:to pay the ſaid Bills , becauſe the partie bro-

kenin
Agguerp had not receiued the value of the money of the other
Merchant there. , although the Bills of Exchanges did acknowledge
the receir, for the Bills: were giuen-ypon accounts betweene them,
which were tobe made vp, and hee was nor: to cleeretheir accounts,
andthe partic broken did owe vnto him farre greater ſummes.. The
parties at London anſwered the Notarie, that they looked to bee
payed according to the. acceptation of the Bills of Exchanges, and

for other matters they had nothing to doe therewith . Interim, the

partie at London who. had accepred the Bills. dyed, and ſo all the

Bills returned Proteſted ,, and the matter reſted vndetermined:: but

the opinion of other Merchants and my owne is, That the acceptor
of the Bills was to pay them, andihis heires and executors are lyable
thereunto, vnleſſe there were found: an apparant combination and
practiſe in it betweene the two Merchants of Antuerp, as was by many ſuſpected. Thus much concerning the obſeruations of Exchanges.

ENDS

2/

ASFA!

|

AT

DID
CHa?,

VIL.

Of Notaries, Intimations, and Proteſts.
RYE
HE Intimations of Notaries well and orderly made,
SIO SS may
bc called tobe true Probation of the Originalls
DO
ENG inthe Courts of Law and Equitie,whereby the bet&

©
U DH

0%

\4 am.

%.

%

ter foundation may bee laid in all litigious cauſes,

which take their feeling beginning of a wrong done, Thetimeof
whereof Intimations are a manifeſtation , and Pro-

teſts ( as being more ſenſible) are meines of the redreſle thereof:
both theſe haue a tripartite reference-in the courſe of trafficke to
Commodities, Money, and Exchange of Money by Bills of Exchanm3

gesz

Lex Mertatoria..
—— ——

ges,accerding to which wee are to make our declaration , obſeruing

firſt and formoſt that-the-time ra make the ſaid? Intimations and Pro. teſts muſtbee abſerued;' both for dayes and hovures, as bath beene noted; for the houres conuenient, arewhen the ations of men-are pub.
likely done in the day time,neither too carly-nor too Jare:, but (as ir

were)at ſuch'time as matters arc ordinarily heard in judiciall-Conrts,
wherein the Sabbath;dayes and Holy-dayes are'excepted, which
NON
2
toobſerue.they are likewiſe
|
Commodities
=For.commoditics
bought or fold, to be delinercd at or before ſuch
_ h_ a day, it:is not-ſufficient to make Intimationandtotender the com-

'

modities before the day ; but it muſt alſo bee done ypon _— day,
and totake witneſſe of it: and if the commoditiesbe not of the goodneſſe that they ought:to be by the contra or bargaine made, and neuerthcleſſe
for ſonie cauſes you doe not hold conuenient to refuſe
them ;lerthere be made a Notariall Inſtrument or A concerning

thedefeRiueneſſe of the commodities, with a proteſtation of your

intentionto recouerall your damages and loſſes ſuſtained or liketo
beſuſtained thereby, which will be verie auailable vntoyou vpon all

occaſions. This is much obſerued beyond the Seas, eſpecially vpon

the ladings of Ships which areto take in the ſame, orelſe may in-

curre a further danger vntothe Charter-partie of fraighrment. And

whereas the maſter of the ſhip will makea Proteſt againſt you, if his

lading benot readieartheday appointed or agreed ypon, ſois it reaſonable, that you make-the like, Proteſt = the partie that ſold
you the commoditic tobe deliuered at ſuch aday : and if it doe fall
outthat you haue committed the like fault,and thereupon a Proteſt is
made againſt you,and the Notarie will craueyour anſ{were, to be recorded, that thereupon at conuenient time ſome aduantage may be

taken againſt you,(the not anſwering being raken to be diſcourteous

or bruitiſh) the ordinaric anſwere is, Yideo gf taceo, or, I do heare and

ſee;which words the Notarie doth inſert in his A, Intimation, or
Proteſt,
Moneys py. If Intimations, Proteſts, or Witneſſes bee made concerning the
able byBonds receit and payments of moneys ypon Bonds, or other cuidences liorSpecialdes. ited to a day, you are then to obſerue the laſt houre of the day
and to tender, or to attend for moneys to bee payed or to be received vntill Sunne ſet, at the place where the ſame is to bepaied,
and commonly ſtay there one houre after Sunne ſet with witneſſes : and it the houſe, lodging, or place be ſhut vp,; make your
tender or demaund vpon the threſhold of the doore, but the mo-

ney muſt be told enen,and then put vpagain into the bags, and torake
notice and witneſſes of it ; vnder their hand writing of the day and

': houre when the money was tendred; or on the other {ide when it was

-»» demanded . But this laſtis incaſe when moneys are made paiable vpMoney pelents on reaſonable demand . For albeit that moneys ſimply acknowMeedmang, IEdgcd to bee owing by Bill or Bond, without limitation of time

tor the payment, are taken to bee due 3#/o fads , that is as ſoone
|

= %

as

4-03

th
OE—

as you did ynderwrite the {aid Bill or Bond-* yet eiuilitic requi<
reth a kind of Intimatiow2nd. demaund, which. is. the: reaſon that

by the Civile Law, althougha Bill-hatie-a time limited for the pay+
ment, yet if the ſame be thirtie yeares old;and hath þeene neuer de-

maunded,it is void of courſe; and cannot'be recouered by thar laws

And Bills made 'vpon reaſonable demaund{if they-benot demanded

in feuen yeares, whichis accounted for:the life of .man; jt is; void al-

ſo ; forthere-muſt beadererminate coutſe.in all rhings; or acontituance by way of reuiuer ::therefore lands holden in: quict poſſeflion
for the ſpace of-fixtie yeares,is a perpetuall inherirance. by the ſaid
Law.
|
|
pat
ict
t
-If moneys payable vpon the forfeiture of a bond;haue beene ta- Moneys raken

which were
ken,or robbed vponthe high way, or otherwiſe, wherety the bond; payable
ypon

could not be paied ypon theday, yer is it neceflarie to make Intima- a torfcirure.
tion of it, at the place where the ſame was to be paicd;, to auoid all
ſuch aduantages as may be taken thereupon,vpon the redemprion. of

Lands or Leaſes, Tewels, or any other commodities, *wherein:the

Courtsof Equitie will rclicueaman hereupon the ſoener; for it''is
ademonſtration of a good-will and intention preuented by ſuch:a
miſchieuous accident;
irs
fs?
Et fidefint vires, tamen eſt landanda woluntas.

Concerning Iritimations and: Proteſts to be made.vpon Bills.of For none? _
Exchanges, for the non-acceptation of payment; itis to be noted,that Bilof ——_
the firſt Proteſt which is in thenarure of Intimation, requireth! more cbange.

celcritic than the other : and albeir, rhat by cuſtome the partie who

is toaccept the ſame hath twentie and foure houres reſpite to deliberatc 0s whehe giueth kis anſwere, neuertheleſle it is not good to
loſe any time in the making of the Proteſt of acceptation. Forif
there be no- pregnant cauſe, the Proteſt may be left in the hands
of the Notarie for a while; but your diligence cannot be diſcommended.
|
_
F
d
.
,
;
"
This Proteſt being made.,and afterwards the Bill of Exchangebe

_

Focpong
oy

commeth. duc , the Notarie is the fitteſt man to demaund the pay- of Exchange,

ment, or to Proteſt , vnleſle. the partie ypon whom-the- ſame is
direQed, do giuenoticethat he will pay the ſame,which/done there
isanend.
|
|
\
If a Bill of Exchange (by contrarie wind,or other occaſions)be ſo

longvypon the way, that the Vſance, or the time limited by the Bill
be expired,and being preſented tothe partie for the paymentyhe will
not pay the ſame, then the Notarie doth make the Proteft, both for

the non-accepration,and for the non-payment,

reciting the Bill of

Exchange werbatim.
And moreouer he calleth vnto him/ſome ſworne
Brokerof Exchange, to know how the price of Exchange runneth The maner of
at Vſance forthe place where the money was taken vp, and: he mas
keth of ira declaration in the Proteſt, according vnto whichyit muſt
|
be

Fn

F

494 |

Lex eMercatoria.

beanſwered beyond the ſeas, with Change, Rechange, Brokeridge,

and all Charges, which muſt be paied according vnto Vſance from

London to the place aforeſaid . As for example, Syppoſe the ſumme

were one hundreth pounds fterling, taken vpat Amſterdam for Lon-

don;payable ar'Vſance, which is one moneths time, at thirtie three
ſhillings and eight Flemiſh money for one pound ſterling ; for which
was recciued at Amſterdam,in that money,one hundreth fixtie and

eight pounds,
ſixſhillings,and eight pence. The Bill not being

paied

heerc,and the price of Exchange being certified by: the Broker and
the 'Notaries Proteſt, to be at thirtie foure ſhillingsſix pence trom
London to Amſterdam : Hereupon the account is caſt ypat Amfter-

dam accordingly,which commeth to one hundteth ſcucntie and two
pounds and' ten ſhillings. Adde hereunto Brokerixdge, and port of

Letters here andat Amſterdam, and ſometimes FaQtoridge,which is
together one in the hundrerh, which amountethto thirtic and foure

ſhillings ; ſohe receiueth at Amſterdam one hundreth ſeuentic foure

pounds and-foure ſhillings for the payment of this Proteſted Bill,
which is fiue
pound ſeuenteene ſhillings foure pence more than hee
had disburſed, which he payeth for the vicofthe money for two
moneths,and ſo for other Bills &c.

SENATE.

EITL

Of Reciprocal and double Exchanges.
? Helike cuſtoms are obſerued inall Reciprocaland
y Double Exchanges, made betweene Merchants
z for ſeveral places, without disburſing of any money on either {ide where the ſaid Exchanges are
K & made,but being meerely depending vpon the paiC&-9J.COc>
) ments to be made in forreine parts.
—EY
FR
Theſe Exchanges arc either Poſitive between
the parties, or Accidentall . The Poſfitiue Exchanges l1.aue a cerPokitiue price
of Exchange, taine price agreed ypon berweene both parties, Reciprocally Exchanging one with another :As forexample,_4.B8.ofLondon hath
a continuall trade of Hamſhire Kerfies for Venice by the way of

Germanie, and maketh his returne altogether by Exchange: C.D.'of

London alſo. hath on the other fide a continuall trade for Redding

and Kentiſh colour Clothes
forAntuerpe , where hauing made mo-

| ney

Lex Mercatoria.
ney of his clothes,he cauſeth the ſame to be made ouetby Exchange

405

for Venice, to be imployed there in Organfine filke, or other com-

modities to be ſent for London, Theſe two Merchanrs(confidering

each others trade, and the aduenture of delinering their moneys by
Exchange to others beyond the ſeas , wherein they muſt truſt rheir
FaRtors or Seruants, or they muſt take vp the moneys by Exchange
themſelnes with ſome diſaduantage ) do make an agreement and
contract of —
betwene them, That CM. B. ſhall cauſe from
time to time for and during the terme of one yeare(all the moneys

whichhe ſhall haue at Venice) tobe deliuered tothe Factor of C.D.

at Venice : and the ſaid C.D. ſhall cauſe in like mannerall the moneys
which he hathat Antuerpe to be deliuered to the Fator of _A.8.

at Antuerpe, who maketh ouer this money ynto him by Exchange,

either direQtly for London,or for ſome other place,as Amſterdam or

Hamborough,and ſo from thence for London, according as he obſer- otObſeruation
the courſe

ueth the courſe of Exchange tobe moſt beneficiall for himſelfe ; oras ot Exchange
the Factor (if he be judicious) ſhall obſerue rhe-ſame for him. By this for _ moſt
agreement or contra@,the ſaid two Merchants doagreeand conclude FO"

betweene thema ſet or Poſitiue price of Exchange, as well for Venice,as for Antucrpe, whereby the ducat of Venice ſhall be rated at
ſo many pence Flemiſh for the money which isreceiuedat Antuerp,
or the pound Flemiſh may be valued in ſterling money after arate,
and the ducatof Venice likewiſe.
And hereuporithey do cleeretheir
accounts betweenethem oncea yeare accordingly, which ſometimes

is done with allowance of intereſt for the di'crepance of time, if it
be without Bills of Exchanges,and done only by Letters of Aduice,
or Acquittances of receipts to reckon by , which is more yſuall in
theſe Poſitive Exchanges, where the price is agreed vpon in certaintie for ſucha time.

The Accidentall Reciprocall Exchanges on the contrarie are vn- Accideneall

certaine in their price, and alrcr from time torimeas thecourſe of yas

Exchange runneth : As for example, A. B.calleth vnto hima Broker *
of Exchanges,and telleth him, that he hath occafion to take vp one
thouſand ducats for Venice, and that he is to make ouer the ſaid mo-

ney for Antuerpe, and will know the price for both places : the Brokeranſwereth,that he will effe& the ſame, and that the price of Ve-

nice is fiftie and ſix pence for the ducat,and for Antuerpe thirtieand
three ſhillings Flemiſh for the pound ſterling : and preſently after he
commeth to 4.B. the Merchant againe, and telleth him , that C.D.
the Merchant is contented to deliuer him the thouſand ducats for
Venice, and to take vp the ſame forhim againe for Antuerpe either
at the ſame prices, or thereabouts, Theſe thoufand ducats at fiftie fx
_ do amount to two hundreth thirtie and three pounds (ix ſhilings and eight pence ſterling, for which C. D. giuerh Bills of Exchanges for Antuerpe to be paicd there at Vſance,which is one moneths time from the date of the Bills after#he rate of thirtie three
ſhillings Flemiſh for twenty ſhillings,or one poand fterling:and x. :
giveth

Lex Mercatoria.
_———_

giueth his Bills of Exchanges Reciprocally to C.D. for the thouſand

ducats to bepaicdat Venice at, Vſance, which is three moneths after
the date of the ſaid Bills : and here is no money paicd on cither ſide

at London, and yet the Bills of Exchanges ſay the -vſuall words(for
the value recciued of each other)according to their agreement;, and
both parties ſend their-Bills of Exchanges for the aforeſaid places.
Not long after, it fallethout,that the Bill of Exchange that C,D.gaue

for Antuerpe commeth- backe againe by Protcſt for the non-acceptation, and not long after that, another Proteſt for the non-payment
of the ſaid Bill. Hereupon A.B, commeth or ſendeth to C.D. tor to
haue ſatisfaRtion for this Bill of Exchange dcliucred him for Antverpe, and C.D.giveth him full ſatisfaction of it,with the rechange

and charges according to the ſaid cuſtomes, if he be a ſubſtantiall
man of credir and repuration : foralthough the ſaid C.D.was the firſt
deliuerer of the money vato A. B.by the thouſand ducats for Venice,
. and mightalleage that hee received no money of him, but a Bill of
Exchange for Venice, whereof hee had no aduice whether it were
accepted or not ; yetſuchis thepreciſe and commendable Cuſtome
vied in Exchanges, that hee may not ſtand vpon any cuaſions or alle.
oations, which mjghtinterrupr the faid courſe without manifeſt diſcreditvntohim, vnleſſe there were cauſe of doubt that the Bills of

Exchanges of A. B. ſhould not bee accompliſhed at Venice , neither

may 4. B. ( without-giſcredit ) countermand the payment of the

thouſand Ducats at Venice, vnleſſe there were iuſt cauſe to call the

credit of C, D.inqueſtion, For the manner of theſe Exchanges are
vſuall inall the places of great Exchanges, as Lyons, Bizanſon, Madrill and Venice, where the moſt ſtanding Bankes arc, and where
they doe get money ingeniouſly by the calculation ypon their pay-

mentsat the Faires or Markets, by intermiffive times cither twice or
thrice withinthe yeare, in regard whereof, and to auoid this obſeruation inthat ſtrikneſſe, they haue vſied to ſay in their Bills of Ex-

changes , Per la Yalmia Cambiata, for the value exchanged with ſucha
one, and not for the value receiued as aforcſaid, becauſe they make
their paiments(as it were)all at one time,which 1s otherwiſe in thoſe
places where no Bankes are kept,or may be alſo in ſome of theſe places if the money be payable without the Banke, as we hauc noted
before.

Many Merchants trafficking onely in Exchanges becomegood ob-

ſcruers,
and as ingenious as tl. Bankers themſelues, according tothe

Adage Fabricanao fabri fimus , whereby they know thevariation of
their Compaſle,and the points todirec their courſe by , obſeruing
the Accidentall cauſes of great payments of moneys to be made in
lomeplaces, andof imployment to be made vypon commodities in
ſome other places, orthe ſcarcitie of money for ſome places,andthe
plentie for other places , or the generalitie of both, calling it asthe
Spaniards ſay Za plac
offi larga lo eftrecha, The exchange or place is
ſtreight or plentious ; ſo that thoſe Merchants ( running with the
|
ſtreame)

Lex Mercatorta.
e

wands.

ſtreame ) can make their Exchanges beneficiall vnto themſelues, and

that without Stocke or Capitall of their owne ;but meerely by taking vp money for one place, and deliuering the ſame for another
place, at an vndervalue in the price of Exchange : ſending many
times the moneys mn pecie, which haue beene taken vp by Exchange,
when the ſame doth yeeld more than the price at which they tooke
vp the ſame z as in our precedent Treatiſe hath beene declared more
amplic.

Thisorderly courſe of payment or ſatisfation to be made for Bills
in
of Exchanges, doth admit noreſcounter or ſtoppage, bur voluntarie, Reſcountrer
Exchange is
thatis to ſay, If I owe you one hundreth pounds by a Bill of Ex- yoluntarie.
change by mee accepted, and within three or foure dayes you ſhall
owe mee the like hundreth
pounds for another Bill of Exchange by
you accepted, I cannot reſcounter theſe payments toanſwere each
other, vnleſſe you condeſcend thercunto, although the money were
due tobe payed ; but eucrie Bill of Exchange is to bee anſwered and
payed in his proper nature . For let vs ſuppoſe that ſome countermand be made by him that cauſed this money to he made ouer vnto
you, before you were to pay the ſaid Bill, which (for ſome cauſes)
youare to conceale for a time,youare forall that to be payed of your
hundreth pounds, or the diligences which are requiſite to bee done
herein, are both wayes to be obſerued accordingly . But when it
is done by voluntarie conſent and agreement, then is it queſtion-

leſſe ; for Yoluntas eſt men/wrs attionum , The Will doth regulate the Willdothre»
actions,
Action : and if any FaQtor doe the ſame for another mans account gulate
Ne.

without commiſſion,he ſhall be anſwerable for it, as before is decla-

red in the Title of Fatorsand Seruants, and the Commiſhons giuen
vntothem.
For the better explanation of Exchanges for moneys, taken vp for
one place, and delivered againe for another place, let ys obſcrue this
example.
Tenne thouſand Ducats were taken vpat Antuerp for Venice,

at

Vſance of two monethsat ſeuerall prices of 1 1 3 5 pence, x 14 pence,

and 115

; pence forthe Ducat, being the Medium or one with ano-

ther at 1 15 pence, made Flemiſh money———R. 4791—13—4
Theſe R.4791—13—4, were made ouer for
London at Vſance being one moneth, at diuers
prices, whereof the Medium was 32 ſhillings foure
P
8-8
pence, and made:
_
—
287 5—0—0
TheſeR. 2875 ſterling being received, and
Factoridge, Brokeridge, and port of letters de_—

ducted, remained 2860 ©, which were made

ouer for Antuerp againe at ſeuerall prices, and the ®
Mediam was 34 (6 2 +4.
43894—15=--10
The tenne thouſand Ducars at Venice were taken vp for Frankford , at 130 Florins of 65
Creutzers,for 100 Ducats,wherunto Faoridge
and

Lex :Mercatoria.
—

——

——OO—C_
— ——
—— —

——

and Brokeridge added , it amounted to 13130

Dollers or Florins of ſixtic five Creutzers, and

with Brokeridge and FaRoridge at Frankford
—_

was Florins

The 4894—15=10

Flemiſh, receiued in Ant-

#6.

F£ 4

—13260 — 0—0

uerp, were made ouer for Madrill in Spaine at divers prices, whereof the Medium was 106 pence

for a Ducat of 375 Maluedeis to bee payed in

Banke at foure moneths time , with fiue vpon the Dar.
/{ 2
thouſand, and made Ducats
————I12—I2—6

Theſe 1 1 1 32 Ducats,twelue ſhillings fix pence
of a Ducat, were made ouer from Madrill to Lix-

borne in Portugall, and deducting Factoridge and
Brokeridge there remained 11010 Ducats of

440 Reas for euerie Ducat of 375 Maluedeis,or
11 Ryalls, is 4844 U 620 Vlas and Ducats
Theſe 12111 Ducats or Cruſats of Lixborne

Dur.
#14
I2111—I1—0

madeouerto Antuerp, Fatoridge and Brokeridge

deducted, remained 1 1990 Ducats, at 98 pence

Flemiſheueric Ducat or Crulat, was Flemiſh——R. 4895 —18—4
The 13260 Florins of Frankford, taken vp for
Antuerp at 81 pence
py
R. 453 O—T O0---O
R. 365 —8—4.
Theſe moneys payed Brokeridge and Fatoridge for Venice, and delivered for London , and
tor Madrill 38—2—4, which muſt bededuted-R.
93 —2—4.

So there was aduanced by induftrie with other

mens moneys

—

—

z;7--0

OS TAPIOS POETS IAG Hh ogg

E

ER \PD..
{2 Es oo
CEfS9
$3908)
'o
Neo tote
Noo eoo 3c WB oooog Bees 9
CHA?,

IX,

Of the Feats of Bankers performed byExchanges.
24

SEE

haue in the Firſt Part of this Booke madea

| {< deſcription of Bankes and Bankers, in regard of
&//2 the payments and Exchanges made in Bankes,for
25 commodities bought and ſold ;
and hauing in the
J precedent Chapters declared the foure manner of

C

Ma

EVE.

Common-wealth

Exchanges, and the merchandizing Exchangeb

dcenominationf it,to be the canker of Englands

let vs now intreat of the Feats of Bankers. Some
men

-

—O—

—

——..

409

Lex «Mercatoria.

Ce

men of judgement haue found my writing to be inyetiue and pathericall againſt Bankers,wherein they are not miſtaken . For the vſe of
are inBanke (vnleſſe they bee countermined by other Bankes ) are not to Bankes
compatible
bee ſuffered in any well ordered Common-wealth, as time will ma-: in Commons
nifeſt more and more , The French King Zews the ninth, and Philip weales.
the Faire, did with great cauſe confiſcate the Bankers goods,
and for
the diſcoueric of theirdebts, ordered their ſubieds topay onely the
principall money into their Treaſuries . Philip de walois did the
like, and indited them as Couſeners of the Common-wealth ; for it
was found that in a ſhort time , with twentie foure thouſand pounds Bedi de Rep.
ſterling,they had accumulated and gotten aboue two millions foure
hundreth thouſand pounds.
.
|
Others (which through enuie, malice, or other pafſions, haue the

eyes of their iudgement blinded) haue cenſured my writing-to be
Apologeticall, for the erefion of a Banke, vnder the colour of the
reſtauration of the auncient Office of the Kinz2s Exchanger , which
how abſurd it is, let the wiſe iudge by the difference betweene a
Banker anda Generall Exchanger . The Banker doth draw vnto him Difference beween Banker
all the moneys of other men, making his ſmall ſtocketo be infinite ; and
Exchange
and the Exchanger muſt with his owne ſtocke ſupply mens occaſions.
The Banker doth make the price of Exchanges, with the correſpondence of other Bankes elſewhere: at his pleaſure and moſt aduan-

tage: The Exchanger hath no correſpondence with other Bankers,
4" with his Factors and Seruants is limited to deale honeſtly with
all men.

Bur becauſe it is difficult to pleaſe mens humours in the reformati-

on of abuſes, which either for gaine ſome. would haue to continue,or

others through ignorance doth not ynderſtand: Therfore is there another meancs propounded, as you ſee by this diſcourſe.
Now comming to the Feats of Bankers, it is notſince yeaſterday

that the ſame haue beene obſerucd, much lefſe by mee inuented:: but

in the yecare 1576, the wiſe and famous Councell of Queene Ehzabeth cauſed the ſame ro be examined by diſcreet perſons;
who did
make report thereof, albeit they miſſed of the remedie, and they did
diſtinguiſh the manner of Ha to be threefold. wiz.

For the Bankers prigate gaine and benefit.
'J® lay their money with gaine in any place of the world where
any. Exchange lyeth.

,

;

To gaine and waxe rich, and neuer meddle with any Princes com-

modities.

”

To buy any Princes commoditie , and neuer bring. pennic
or-pennieworth into. the Realme , but doe it with the ſubics
money.
To grow rich and live without aduenture at the Seas or travaile.

N n

To

410

Lex Mercatorta.
Todoe great feats, hauing credit, and yet tobe nought worth,

To ynderſtand whether in conieQure their money imployed on

Exchange, or buying of wares,will be more prohr.

To know certainely whether, and what the Merchants gaine vpon
their wares they ſell and buy,
Toliueand increaſe vpon euerie Princes ſubieQs that continually

take vp money by Exchange, and whether they gaine or no.
To wind out euerie Princes treaſure out of his Realme, whoſe
ſubieRs bringimore wares than they carric out of the Realme,
To mak+the Staple of money run thither, where the rich Prince
will haue'it tobe brought,and
pay for it.
To vnfurniſh the -poore Prince of his prouiſion of money, that
keepes his wares vpon intereſt money, if the enimie will ſeeke it.
To furniſh their need of money that tarrie the ſelling of their

wares in any contra, vntill they make them cometo their price,
To take vp money to engroſle any commoditie, either new come
or whereof they haue ſome ſtore,to bring the whole trade of that

commoditie into their owne handstofſell both art their pleaſure,
For the aduaxcing of one Common-wealth, aboue all
other: Common-weales.

T?2 hide their carrying away of any Princes money.
To fetch away any Princes fine money, with his owne or any

other Princes baſe money.

Þ

To take vp Princes baſe money, and toturne into his fine money, and topay thedeliuerer with his owne and gaine too.

To get vpon credit into their hands for a time all the Met-

chants money that will be deliuered;and pay them with their owne,
and gaine too.
is
To make the Realmegaine of all other Realmes, whoſe ſubiects
liue moſt by their owne commodities, and ſell yearely the ouerptus
into the world, and both occupie thar increaſe yearely, and alſo their
old ftore of treaſure vpon Exchange.
To vndoe Realmes and Princes that looke not to their Common-

wealth, when the Merchants wealth in ſuch, andthegreat houſes of
one Countrey conſpire together ſo to rule the Exchange, that when
they will be deliuerers, they will receiue in another place above the
ſtandard of the Mint of the Princes money deliuered : And when
they will bee takers', they will pay the fame in another place; vader
the ſtandard of the Mint of the Princes money taken vp.
wn
the
To get readie money to buy any thing thar is offered cheape.
Tocompaſle readie money to ger any offered bargaine out of aria_—_ hands, and ſo by outbidding thc other, oftentimes to raiſe
e Wares,
For

—

—_—

41l

Lex Mercatoria.
For the deſtrattion of a Common-wealth,

/F*O

getapart and ſometimes all his gaines, that imployeth money

taken vp by Exchanges in wares, and ſo make others trauell for

their gaine.

'

To keepe Princes for hauing

2991

any Cuſtomes, Subſidies, or Taxes

vpon their money, as they imploy it not.
|
Tovaluciuſtly any wares they carrie intoany countrie, by ſetting

them at that value, as the _— that bought them was then at by

Exchange inthe countrie whither they be carried.
|
For the better explanation of the premiſſes, let vs remember the
deſcription of a Banke heretofore declared, and therein obſcrue that
Payments in
great powerand commaund which is giuen them by the common- Banke
limited;
wealth, to incorporate moneys by the meanes of Exchanges, making
itto become a merchandiſe, and to ouerrule the courſe of commodities.

Some menare of opinion, that the price of Exchangesate made

by an indifferent courſe, becauſe the Bankers at the time of the payments of Exchanges inthe principall places (as Lyons in France,Madrill and other places in Spaine, Florence and Genoain Italic, Bizan-

ſon,and other places elſewhere) haue a meeting, andby certainetick-

ets in writing eucrie man doth geliugr his opinion,what the price of
Exchange ought to be for all places then exchanging for the next
Faire,or time of payment. And according to the ſame the calculati-

on is caſt ypby the Atedium, that is to ſay, if there be ſeuen or more Exchanges

voices or tickets, the ſaid ſeuen are added together , and the ſcuenth —
part is the Medivm, if there be ten, then the ſame being caſt vp, the

the

tenth part is the Medium, and ſo for greater or leſſernumbers accordingly . But theſe men are ignorant of the Bankers obſeruations,for
they all know how the

plentie of money lyeth by Exchanges, and

they concur in making the pricefor their aduantage,and ſo iumpe all
to one end ypon the imaginarie moneys beforedeclared, which maketh the maine ocean of Exchanges,wherein the Exchanges of England are ſwallowed vp as a little riuer or braunch of the ſame, taking
ſtill aduantage vpon our fine moneys and ſtaple wares to glut vs with
their forreine commoditiesat deere rates. And hence proceedeth the
Primum mobile of Exchanges , which is the cauſe of inequalitic ſo -p,mmummetite

muchabuſed from the true Exchange of par pro fns, and neuerthe- of Exchanges,

leſſe admitted to be high and low vpon

iuft occaſion aboue the ſame,

as money is plentifull orſcarce,or the takers of it many or few.

To this purpoſe, let ys remember, that about ſeuentie yeares paſt,
betwene this realme and the Low-countries, many of their coynes
(although much differing in ſtandards ) did in the

ound or marke

weight, andin the verie peece and price anſwerethe coynes of the
Equall Exkingdome,and did containeas much fine gold and filueras ours, and change,
or a
werealſonamed and valued accordingly, whereby twentie ſhillings true Par,
n 2

here

Lex Mercatoris.
—_—

here madealſo twentieſhillings with them, being a true Par.
:

'

2 3:Car«:3 - The

As for example.

4

['

Hat-—1o

The Emperors royall Ar IO 4 223 Car.

22 car. TheFrench crowne 6 The Flemiſh crowne

ED

f

|

I 1 Oun, Srngiuhof filuer 5 The roup doller——5

6 fine,

[1

2 pennieQEngliſh ſhilling —1 Flemiſh 7fix ſtivers——- x

weight.

10 ounces

Ten groats filuer with theEmperors florin 3 fine,
foure pence.

All theſe coynes are not anſwered in ſtandard for weight and fineneſſe, butarealrered and inhanced by valuation to double and more,

as you may find by the valuations heretofore declared : by meanes

whereof inequalitie crept in by the riſing and falling of the price of
Exchange,wherin ourMerchants haue followed the aduice of others,

loſt and loſt the rule of Exchange, and do obſerue to raiſe the price here,
the rule of Ex- when itisriſen beyond the ſeas, and we fall in price, as they dofall,

change.

and ſo the publicke meaſure of Exchange betweene them and vs is
falſified an”yntrue, whereby our commoditics are ſold,and alſo forreine commodities are bought.

This may be illuſtrated by a fimilitude ; for concerning the ſale of
our commodities, we doas much in effec, as if ſome Draper did ſell
his cloth at a certaine price the yard, and ſuffered the buyer to mea-

ſure our the ſame by the buyers ownefalſc yard: or likea Grocer

. thatſellethourhispepper b the pound ata priceagreed vpon, and is
contented rhat the buyer
ſhallweigh it out by a weight which (vnknowne vnto him) is falfe,and ſo loſeth vnawares,or getteth leffe
F

than he made account of, becauſe the fraud vſed inthe weight

and meaſure is vnknowne vnto him. Even ſo is the cunning courſe of Exchange vaknowne vnto vs,
and ſoarc our moneys exported,
and hindered tobe imported againe.
ws

Lex «eMercatoria.
—_—_

ETATETITETT

METER
th

——_—_—

JF LEP) vo

URI RES JI

Dor ro ro reeorr
v

CHAP,

X;

Of the true reformation of Exchanges.

©.

-

=2I $ of all thingsand inall humane ations, the beginning,progreſſe,continuance,and termination
- orend is to be obſerued,for the better iudge2 ment:ſoby comparing them often to their prin-

ciple& originall,
not onely the diſgrefſion of it

q 1s made apparant, but alſo the longer continuw A
SS
anceintheſameeſtate,is thereby procured to reduce them againe to their firſt integritic and goodnefle . For there
was neucr any thing by the witofman ſo well deuiſed,or ſoſureeſtabliſhed, which in continuance of time hath not beene corrupted : ſo
that the matter of Exchange being made a merchandiſe, requireth
this conſideration for the reducing thereof tohis firſt principle and
foundation, which is the intrinfique value of coynes of countrie and
countries according to weight and fineneſſe, albeit the price thereof
in Exchange doth riſe and fall according to ſcarcitie or plentie of
money, proceeding of the few or many deliuerers and takers thereof
in the courſe of trafficke, not by commodities only,but alſoby Ex+
changes deuiſed vpon moneys,in nature of merchandiſe,
—

Se:

Herein are the three efſenriall parts of trafficke(ſoofren named)to Thegenerall

be conſidered iointly and diuidedly for the good and welfare of
common-weales , and not for the benefit of particular or few per- *
ſons. For albeit that the generall is compoſed of the particular, yet

it may fall out, that the particular will breed a great inconuenience
to thegenerall, whereby priuate perſons may reape a benefit to the
hurt of amultitude,or the whole common-wealth,innature of ſome
Monopolies heretofore declared, which may as well happen by ignorance as by premeditated practiſe,
For to ſpeake ingeniouſly, Merclants cannotenter into confideration of the quantirie of forreine commodities imported at deere
rates,and the natiue commodities at leſſer rates exported, reſpeQiuely of former times, by the diſportation whereof, -commerh an
euident oucrballancing of commodities . Merchants do not regard

whether the moneys of a kingdome are ynderualued in Exchange
Na 3
by

414.

Lex Mercatoria.
———

——

_

CCC

eG

——

-—_

by the inhauncing of forreine coyne in other countries, whereby our

moneys are exported, and forreine coyne or bullion cannor be imported but aran exceeding loffe. Laſtly Merchants donot know the
weight and finenefle of the moneys of cach countrie,and theproportions obſerued berweenegold and filuer, nor the ſeuerall differences

of ſtandards of moneys of gold and filuer, a matter ſo neceffarie for
them to know,to driuea profitable trade,as by this booke they may
now vnderſtand for the common good. Princes and Gouernours
therefore are todiretthem according to the lawes,wherin the Law-

Merchant muſt be the true guide and directer,
This dire&ion muſt as well beeſtabliſhed vpon the coyne of other
nations,as vpon the moneys of the kingdome, becauſe the payments
of Bills of Exchanges beyond the ſeas are made by ſeuerall coynes

vpon the valuation made thereof, at the pleaſure of Princes, wherby
ſometimes the moneys of the realme are not proportionably valued
according to the moneys of other countries, whichare therby diuerted alſo tobe imported vnto vs: For example,letvs take the yaluati-

onaforeſaid made in the vnired Prouinces during the goucrnment of
the Earle of Leiceſter, at which timethe Royall of eight was valued
at tortic and two ſtiuers, and the Rickx Doller of the Empire and al-

{o their owne Doller at fortie and five ſtivers, and the Engliſh ſhil-

ling (at twelue pencehere ) being there valuedat ten ſtiuers made
twentic ſhillings ſterling, to be by Exchange thirtie three ſhillings
and foure pence,as a Par pro parkor value for value. The like for Hamboroughat twentie foure ſhillings and nine pence,

as hath beeneno-

ted, Now fiue Royalls of cight which is at fortie two ſtiuers thirtie
five ſhillings, are valuedat fortie two ſhillings and fix pence,that is to
ſay,at fiftic one ſtiuers, and yet the Exchange is taken ſtill at the ſaid
rate,according towhich calculation the ſaid Royall of eight is by vs

receiued at fiue ſhillings and two pence, which is but foure ſhillings

2 + pence, or thercabouts . The difference is fifteene ypon the hundreth inlefſe than two moneths time : adde hereunto the ten in the
hundreth to be had by the ſaid Royalls of cight,thatthe ſame are
better in weight and fineneſſe than ourſix pence ſterling, which is
taken to anſ{were the ſaid Royall by acommon calculation,by reaſon
whereot there will be giuen ſo much in his maieſties- mint, orthereabouts.that is to ſay, foure ſhillings and fiue pence,or at the leaſt foure
ſhillings and fourepence 5,after the rate of fiue ſhillings ſterling,for
A treatiſeof
Free trade
I622,

an ounce of that ſtandard ; ſo together is twentie fiue vpon the hundreth benefit, which cauſed a Merchant aduenturer to ſet downe in

2» printan interrogation in this manner : Who will procure licence in
» Spainetobring Realls into _—_— to ſell them hereat renne inthe
»» hundreth gaine, which is lefle than the Exchange trom thence will
2» yeeld, when he may haue for the ſame 25 in the r00 in Holland 2 A
matter whereby Merchants are cafily induced ro diuert the ſaid Royalls from the realme to thoſeand other countries, and by the com-

mon vnderſtanding to remedie the ſame, it is thought there is no
meanes

Lex Mercatoria.
P—

_ ==

_—

—

meanes to meete with forreine nations in the inhancing of moneys,
but wee muſt doe the like , albeit experience hath ſhewed long ſince

that this is nor effetuall nor any truz remedie . Now if we will con?

ſider things according to the rule aforeſaid, it will plainely appeare
that the ſaid fifreene vpon the hundred gaine,more than in England,
are but imaginarie, if the Exchange for moneys were reformed : for
let fiue of theſe Royalls of eight bee bought in England tor twentic
two ſhillings,and be tranſported into Holland,and there buy commodities with the ſame (which is according as the price of them is inhanced,

for as the money riſeth in price, ſo doth the price of com- FP

modities ) it may fall out the ſaid Merchants ſhould become loſers
by the commodities,{o that the fame cannot be termed Cauſa mowens :
But the Spaniſh Merchants, which cauſetheir Royalls to be ſent into
Holland or Zealand, from Spaine or from the Downes, relye wholly
vpon the Low-Exchange, whereby they are inabled to deliuerthere

their money by Exchange at an vndervalue , at thirtie three ſhillings
foure pence Flemiſh and vnder, for our twenrie ſhillings ſterling,
whereby the Kingdome maketh good vnto them the ſaid fifteen vp-

on the hundreth, conſiſting betweene the price of fortie two ſtiuers,

and fiftic one ſtiuers, which is almoſt eighteene pro hundreth . If the
Royall went but for fiftie ſtiuers according to the valuation, ſorhat
ifthe Exchange were made accordingly,which would be aboue thirtie ſeuen ſhillings ſix pence, this gaine would not be ar all, and moneys would be'tmported vnto vs, and not exported.
For the rule is infallable, That when the Exchange anſwereth the A Meximein
true value of moneys, according to their intrinſicke weight and fine- O__
neſle, and their extrinſicke valuation ; they areneuer exported, becauſe rhe ſaid gaine is an{wered by Exchauge, which is the cauſe of
tranſportation . To make this euident in the Rickx Doller, whichis
the maine and moſt vſ'all coyne in Germanie, Eaſtland, the Vnired

and Reconciled Low-countreys before theirlare Proclamations,and
currant in many other Countreys : obſerue wee, that the ſaid Doller
_
was valued at two markes Lubiſh, euery marke being ſixteene ſhil- þ
lings Lubiſh,

is

or fixteene ſtivers. For in the yeare 1575 the ſaid yer Flemiſh

Ricks Doller was ſtill coyned in the Empire for thirtie ewo ſhillings was altone
or ſtiuers, and ſo currant by valuation in the Low-countreys, where- **7*
by they were all one in-denomination and effeR : But the wars inthe - _
Low-countreys hath becne the cauſeof the inhancing of this Doller,
which was brought to thirtie five ſtiuers, and inthe yeare 1586 to
fortic five ſtiuers, orto fiftie two ſtiuers now by intermiſſiue valuati-

ons and times. Howbeit at Hamborough,Stoade,and other places in
Germanie, the ſaid Doller did remaine till at thirtic two ſhillings

Lubiſh, or two markes : and as the ſaid Doller did inhance 1n price,
ſodid they in the Low-countreys coyne new ſtiucrs accordingly;
|
ſometimes lighter in weight, and at other times imbaſed by Copper Areat Falls.
or Allay, and yet in account the ſtiuer did and doth remaine the
ground of all their moneys : but the ſaid Doller holdeth his ſtandard
agrecable

|

I

-_

OI

eeopes

Du

—_—

_—

_

—

_

DO —

—

Lex «Mercatoria.

216

—

—

—

eee

eoeee

nouns

agreeable to the firſt Doller,called the Burgundian Doller with Saint
Andrewes Croſſe,coyncd in the yeare 1567, which is in fineneſſe ten
ounces twelue pennie weight of fine Siluer : and foureand one halfe

iy

of theſe Dollers were made cquiuolent to our twentie ſhillings ſterling, as a publike meaſure betweene vs and the Low-countreys, Germanie, and other places where this Doller went currant, as you may
obſcrue in the precedent Chapters.
Theſe Dollers haue ſince beene imitated and made by the States of
the Vnited Prouinces in their ſeuerall Mints, altering onely the
rmes of the ſeucrall Prouinces ; as alſo by the Arch-Duke Albertus
in the reconciled Low Prouinces, and the price of them at Hamborough,Stoad and other places was but aduanced to one ſtiuer or ſhil-

ling Lubiſh more, that is to ſay,at thirtie three ſhillings Lubiſh went,

the ſame went in the Low-countreys for fortie fiue ſtivers, which
made the diuerſitie of the ſaid Par of Exchanges of thirtic three ſhil-

lings foure pence for the Low-countreys, and twentie foure ſhillings
IntheNether: Nine pence for Hamborough , being all oneinſubſtance. This Dollands.
ler is ſince that time (as I ſaid) inhaunced to fiftie two ſRiners inthe
Low-countreys, which maketh the price of Exchange aboue thirtie
eight ſhillings,or rather thirtie nine ſhillings;and ſhall the Kingdome
ſuffer this and not alter our price of Exchange accordingly , but be
contented to take thirtic foure or thirtie fue ſhillings, and after that

rate ynderfſell all the commodities of the Realme *

{n Germanie.

This Doller is likewiſe fince that time more inhaunced in Germa-

nic,from time totime, And leauing the exceſhuc valuation inremote
places,let vs note the valuation of Hamborough,where it hath beene
at fiftie foure ſtiuers the Doller , which maketh the Exchange aboue
fortie ſhillings of their money for our twentic ſhillings . And although we haue raiſed our price of Exchange,from twentie ſhillings
nine pence,tothirtie fiue ſhillings and thereabouts, ſhall wereſt here

andgoe no further * Haue we reafon to doc it in part, and not inthe
whole, according to Tuſtice,Equitic,and true Policie : and ſhalkwebe
like a man that by halting 1n jeaſt became lamcin earneſt 2.4b/ir
fenorantia.

The moneys in Chriſtendome,
which haue their ebbing and flowing doe ſhew their operation vpon commodities, maketh by plentie
Exchange, are the price thereof deare , or by ſcarſitic better cheape, as bath beene
contraries in noted : but Exchange
.
hath a contraric meane of working, for plentic
operation,
of money maketh a low Exchange, and ſcarfitic of money maketha
highExchange and the price to riſe, which is of great conſideration ;
becauſe it ouerruleth money and commodities, which neuer entred
The courſe of
money and

inthe politicke ſtudies of A4ri/otle, Seneca, or Cicero, who were but in

the infancic of Trade. And Ciuilians can tell vs that Commercium , is

waſi Commutatio Mercium, but went no further in this iuſt and prince-

y ſtudie of State affaires,to augment,
by all lawfull meanes of 7s gentum, the wealth of their Kingdomes and Territories ; as alſo to preuent the diminution thereof, by the carrying away of their _—
an

